IT IS NOT JUST
FOR
I CAN
CERTAINLY TRY I THINK I SOUND
FINE DO YOU THINK I SOUND FINE?
>> ALL RIGHT, EXCELLENT.
ARE YOU WORKING IN PROGRESS OK.
>> GOOD EVENING AND WELCOME TO
THE THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16TH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE REGULAR
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
PLANNING COMMISSION.
MY NAME IS DANIEL WHICH I'LL BE
CHAIRING THE MEETING TONIGHT
FOR DETAILED INFORMATION ON
MEETING PROCEDURES.
PLEASE REVIEW THE FULL PRINTED
MEETING AGENDA PROVIDED AT EACH
END OF THE DYAS MANAGER KELLY,
WOULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ABSOLUTELY.
NOTING THAT WE HAVE THREE
ADVANCED ABSENCES THIS EVENING
FOR COMMISSIONER APRON'S
HAMMERSCHMIDT AND LEE WISCH
HERE COUNCILMAN BRITISH
COMMISSIONER MILLS' HERE
WHETHER IT BE HERE,
COMMISSIONER ADAMS HERE,
COMMISSIONER NORTON HERE YOU DO
HAVE A QUORUM.
I WILL SINCE YOU HAVE LIGHT A
LIGHTER ATTENDANCE THIS EVENING
THAT THERE ARE FIVE VOTES
REQUIRED FOR ANY AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION.
SO NOTAT MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I OPPOSE
THE MOTION CARRIES ME I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
OF THE OCTOBER 7TH TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE MEETING MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES FROM
OCTOBER SEVEN SEEING NONE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY I
OPPOSE THE MOTION CARRIES WE'LL
TAKE A MOMENT AND WELCOME
COMMISSIONER AND COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH BECAUSE WE HAVE TO ASK IF
SHE HAS A REPORT FOR US.
>> SHE'S IT'S OK.
WE'LL START WITH MANAGER KELLY
.
SURE THING.
I WOULD LIKE TO PASS ON SOME
COMMUNICATIONS FROM PLANNER
BENNETT AND MANAGER LEONARD,
THE FIRST OF WHICH IS TO LET
YOU KNOW THAT THE APPENDIX
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND THE
PAGINATION WAS ABLE TO BE FIXED
FOR THE THIRD DRAFT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THAT
UPDATED VERSION IS POSTED TO
THE HUB WHICH IS ENGAGED NOT A
BUG.
I WILL ALSO POINT OUT A RECENT
ADDITION TO YOUR PACKET I WAS
GOING TO GIVE A REPORT OUT ON
THEIR BEHALF DURING THE MANAGER
REPORT AND THEY DECIDED BECAUSE
IT WAS A LITTLE LONGER TO
FORMAT IT AS A MEMO INSTEAD.
SO THAT IS NOW IN THE PACKET IT
IS PRINTED IN FRONT OF YOU AND
THAT SHARES THE EXPECTED
PROCESS FOR THE REVIEW IN
ADOPTION PHASE OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
STAFF DO INTEND TO EXTEND THE
REVIEW PERIOD TO JANUARY 5TH TO
ALLOW FLEXIBILITY FOR
STAKEHOLDERS, ADJACENT
COMMUNITIES AND THE PUBLIC AS
THIS FALLS TOWARD A BUSY END
OF THE CALENDAR YEAR AND
OF COURSE SOME VERY POPULAR
HOLIDAYS DURING THE SIXTY THREE
DAY REVIEW PERIOD THE INTENTION
IS TO COLLECT PUBLIC COMMENT
THROUGH A FORM ON THE PAGE SO
ENGAGED TODAY TO DIG AT THE TOP
OF THAT PAGE YOU WILL SEE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TILE YOU
CLICK ON THAT THERE WILL BE
OPPORTUNITIES TO SUBMIT YOUR
COMMENTS FOR THE THIRD DRAFT IN
THE HUB PAGE.
WE KNOW THAT SOME PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO EMAIL PLANNING IT.
THEY TOOK UP THAT ORG WE WILL
PATIENTLY REPLY AND GIVE
INSTRUCTIONS FOR HOW TO PUT
THAT INTO THE HUB.
THAT WAY WE CAN CORRAL THEM ALL
IN ONE LOCATION AND THEN LATER
WE'LL BE DOING SORT OF A ROLL
UP OF THOSE COMMENTS AND
PUTTING THEM IN YOUR PACKAGE
FOR THE NOVEMBER 18TH IN
DECEMBER SIXTEENTH MEETING SO
THAT YOU CAN SEE THEM.
YOU COULD ALSO LOG INTO THE HUB
AND CHECK ON THAT THAT
PROGRESS.
BUT UM AND THEN THERE'S SOME
FURTHER INFORMATION THAT IN
PREPARATION FOR THOSE MEETINGS
IF COMMISSIONERS WOULD LIKE TO
CONSIDER ANY ADDITIONAL
AMENDMENTS TO PLEASE SEND THEM
TO MICHELLE BENNET BY NOVEMBER
4TH AT FIVE PM AFTER THAT TIME
STAFF WILL COMPILE THEM SIMILAR
TO THE PRIOR TWO ROUNDS
OF EDITS AND THOSE WILL BE
BROUGHT FORTH FOR DISCUSSION AT
THE CONCLUSION OF THE COMMENT
PERIOD, STAFF ANTICIPATE
FINALIZING THE DRAFT AND ANY
DISCUSSED EDIT DURING THE
REVIEW PERIOD WILL BE NOTED BUT
NO ACTUAL DRAFT EDITS WILL
OCCUR UNTIL THE CONCLUSION
OF THE REVIEW PERIOD.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO SAY I'M
HAPPY TO TAKE YOUR QUESTIONS ON
THIS AND I WILL DO MY BEST BUT
I AM I AM A MESSENGER OF THIS
MEMO TONIGHT.
>> COMMISSIONER NORTON, DID YOU
SAY IT WAS PRINTED OUT
SOMEWHERE FOR US TO HELP?
IT SHOULD BE PRINTED OFF IN
FRONT OF YOU MAY HAVE ONLY BEEN
PROVIDED I'M SORRY IF IT WAS
JUST PROVIDED TO THE CHAIR BUT
I CAN PROVIDE YOU WITH A
PRINTED COPY IF YOU WOULD LIKE
OR JUST OR WAS THIS WOULD BE IT
IS IN THE PACKET FOR THIS
EVENING.
IT WAS JUST IT WAS ORIGINALLY
GOING TO BE A VERBAL UPDATE FOR
MANAGER REPORT BUT IT WAS
FORMALIZED AND I FIND IT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
AS FAR AS I CAN TELL THE
EXTENSION NOW TO JANUARY 5TH
OF FEBRUARY HERE AS OF JANUARY
5TH THAT IT CLOSES THAT'S A
LOOKS LIKE ABOUT A TWO WEEK
EXTENSION TO THE SIXTY THREE
DAY PERIOD THAT MORE OR LESS
TRACK YOUR RECOLLECTION OF THAT
SOUNDS ABOUT RIGHT.
IT'S NOT IT'S NOT A BIG ONE.
IN OTHER WORDS, IT'S JUST GET
US THROUGH THE HOLIDAYS AND
STOP THE CHOCOLATE.
>> THANKS.
YES THAT THAT'S THE IDEA.
>> I'VE GOT OTHER QUESTIONS
FROM CONDITIONER'S THANK YOU
MANAGER KELLY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH DO YOU HAVE A REPORT FOR
US?
THANK YOU.
I THINK THAT THERE IS ONLY ONE
THING WORTHY OF NOTE BUT I'M
NOT EVEN SURE THAT IT'S QUITE
RELEVANT.
BUT THERE IS A TEMPORARY
EXTENSION IN THE IN THE
CODE NOT THE UDC OR RATHER A
TEMPORARY REDUCTION OF DISTANCE
REQUIREMENTS BETWEEN K-12
SCHOOLS AND MARIJUANA
FACILITIES AND ESTABLISHMENTS.
I I THOUGHT THAT THE MARIJUANA
ESTABLISHMENTS WERE INITIALLY
REGULATED IN THE UDC OR YES OR
THE BAPTIST AND IS IN THE DC.
THIS WOULD BE AN AMENDMENT AND
THIS WAS DISCUSSED I CAN'T
RECALL THE EXACT MEETING BUT IT
WAS WITHIN I THINK THE LAST
MONTH.
>> YES IT WAS YEAH IT WAS THE
SIXTH YEAH.
SO BUT THIS IS A TEMPORARY ONE
SO WILL THIS BE COMING TO
PLANNING COMMISSION BECAUSE WE
DO THIS OR I'M NOT AWARE OF A
TEMPORARY CHANGE.
THE ONLY THING THAT OUR
DEPARTMENT FORWARDED WAS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ITEM THAT
WAS RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL.
>> OK, YEAH I'M SORRY YOU SO
COUNCILOR VOTED TO TEMPORARILY
EXTEND IT BECAUSE IT WOULD MAKE
EXISTING ENTITIES NONCONFORMING
UNTIL THEY HEARD BACK FROM
PLANNING ON WHETHER WE SHOULD
ADOPT A NEW APPROACH WHICH WE
DECIDED BUT WE'LL GO BACK SO
THERE IS A TEMPORARY NOTICE TO
THE UDC WHICH WENT OUT I THINK
THIS WEEK BECAUSE I RECEIVED IT
IN MY EMAIL.
>> OK, AND MANAGER MAY BE MORE
AWARE OF THAT.
I DO KNOW THAT THE MARIJUANA
AMENDMENT IS SUPPOSED TO BE I
THINK IN YOUR PACKET FOR NEXT
MONDAY.
YES IT IS FOR FIRST READING SO
THAT WOULD PROBABLY WHAT YOU'RE
REFERENCING B TO TIDE YOU OVER
TO KEEP BUSINESSES FROM FALLING
OUT OF CONFORMITY FOR THAT
PERIOD UNTIL YOU CAN GET TO
THAT SECOND READING AND
EFFECTIVE DATE IF IT IS CHOSEN
TO BE APPROVED.
I THINK THAT'S CORRECT.
ALL RIGHT.
>> ARE THERE ANY OTHER REPORTS
FROM COMMISSIONERS' OR
COMMITTEE LIAISON'S
SEEING NONE
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKET.
YOU CAN ACCESS IT IN REGISTAR.
JUST GO TO THE CALENDAR, SELECT
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION AND
SELECT THE YEAR TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE AND THEN SCROLL DOWN UNTIL
YOU FIND TODAY'S MEETING.
THAT BRINGS US TO ITEM NUMBER
SIX.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ISSUES NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING OR A
DEDICATED PUBLIC COMMENT ON
TODAY'S AGENDA WE WILL FIRST
HEAR FROM THOSE OF YOU WHO ARE
PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
BRUSSTAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
USING ZOOME FOR PHONE ACCESS
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE FOUR SEVEN AND
IN OUR MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STATE
IDENTIFIED CALLERS BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF USING THEM
YOU WILL HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK
PLEASE MOVE TO QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND SOUND FOR
ALL PARTICIPANTS WHETHER ONLINE
OR IN PERSON.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME SAYING YES
PLEASE COME RIGHT UP.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES THERE
ARE THREE LIGHTS GREEN YOU'RE
GOOD TO GO YELLOW STAR TO WRAP
UP AND RED PLEASE STOP.
>> WELCOME.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS LENNY LAMPING.
I WORK FOR THE INNER
COOPERATIVE COUNCILS OR COUNCIL
WHICH IS OFF CAMPUS FOR
AFFORDABLE STUDENT HOUSING HERE
IN ANN ARBOR.
WE'VE BEEN AROUND FOR ONE
HUNDRED YEARS ALMOST NINETEEN
THIRTY TWO IS WHEN WE WERE
STARTED AND I LIVE IN YPSILANTI
SO I'M NOT A RESIDENT OF ANN
ARBOR BUT I DO WORK HERE SO I'M
HERE TODAY TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
ARE ON YOUR RADAR WHEN YOU ARE
CONSIDERING USAGE FOR ANY
OF THESE DEVELOPMENTS THAT ARE
GOING UP HIGH RISE DEVELOPMENTS
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED AND I
HOPE THAT YOU ARE IN EXPANDING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT IS
AVAILABLE TO LOW INCOME
STUDENTS IN THE AREA IN
ADDITION TO OF COURSE THE MULTI
FAMILY AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT
WE'VE HEARD ABOUT BEING A
PRIORITY AS WELL.
I AM REPRESENTING MY
ORGANIZATION AND I'M HOPING
THAT WE CAN REQUEST SPACE FOR
ADA COMPLIANT OFFICE SPACE.
WE CURRENTLY HAVE A RENOVATED
VICTORIAN HOUSE DOWNTOWN VERY
CLOSE TO THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY
AND IS NOT ACCESSIBLE TO OUR
SEVERAL OF OUR MEMBERS WHO ARE
IN WHEELCHAIRS AND USE MOBILITY
AIDS AND WE ARE LOOKING FOR ADA
COMPLIANT SPACE SO THAT WE CAN
ACTUALLY HAVE THEM COME INTO
OUR OFFICE WHEN WE'RE DOING
BUSINESS SO WE WOULD LOVE TO
HAVE OFFICE SPACE.
WE HAVE 14 EMPLOYEES WHO WORK
FULL TIME IN OUR ORGANIZATION
AND IN ADDITION TO THAT IF
THERE IS SPACE AVAILABLE FOR
STUDENT HOUSING THAT CAN RUN
COOPERATIVELY AS WELL.
WE WOULD LOVE LOVE, LOVE TO
WORK WITH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ON HOW THAT MIGHT
WORK.
WE'RE OPEN TO APARTMENT STYLE
HOUSING NOT JUST GROUP HOUSING
BUT THAT CAN STILL BE
FUNCTIONAL AS A CO-OPERATIVE
STYLE LIVING ARRANGEMENT AND I
BELIEVE THAT'S ALL I HAVE TO
SAY SO I'LL SEE THE REST OF MY
TIME AGAIN.
MY NAME IS LENNY LAMPING AND
I'M DIRECTOR OF MEMBER
RESOURCES AT THE ICC.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME SEEING NONE DO WE HAVE
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS?
THERE IS ONE HAND RAISED.
MR CHAIR THAT IS MARK YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES.
HELLO THIS IS MARK SCHERBA
CALLING FROM WEST LIBERTY
STREET.
I JUST WANT TO SPEAK IN SUPPORT
OF TONIGHT'S DISCUSSION AROUND
350 WILLIAMS BY THE WAY LA I'M
SO EXCITED MARTIN I'M SORRY
MARK CAN I PAUSE YOU FOR A
SECOND BECAUSE I THINK WE HAVE
A PUBLIC DEDICATED PUBLIC
COMMENT FOR THAT.
SO MANAGER, IN THAT CASE, CAN I
ACTUALLY SPEAK ABOUT SOMETHING
NOT RELATED TO OF COURSE YOU
CAN.
>> MANAGER KELLY, WOULD YOU
RESET THEIR CLOCK?
THANK YOU SO MUCH, ROBERT.
THEN WHAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT
I WAS RECENTLY VISITING SOME
FRIENDS IN PORTLAND PORTLAND,
OREGON THAT RECENTLY WENT
THROUGH A SIMILAR PROGRAM
INCLUDING ALTHOUGH WHAT THEY
CALL THE RESIDENTIAL INFILL
PROGRAM AND WE STAYED WITH SOME
FRIENDS WHO WERE ONLY ABLE TO
PURCHASE A HOUSE BECAUSE THE
PREVIOUS OWNER HAD BUILT A
LARGE 82 ABOVE THEIR GARAGE AND
MOVED INTO THAT AIDO BASICALLY
MADE A KIND OF ARRANGEMENT AND
THEN SOLD THE REST OF THEIR
HOUSE.
SO FRIENDS ARE NOW IN THIS
WONDERFUL MULTIGENERATIONAL
HOUSING SITUATION AND THE
PREVIOUS OWNER OF THE HOUSE HAD
PLANTED TONS OF FRUIT TREES AND
GARDENS AND MY FRIENDS NOW GET
TO SHARE THAT GARDEN WITH THE
OLDER FORMER HOMEOWNER WHO IS
NOW IN THE LARGE AIDOO.
I BELIEVE THAT AIDOO IS LARGER
THAN ORADEA.
YOU STANDARDS ALLOW SO IT'S
SOMETHING MUCH MORE AKIN TO
WHAT WE WILL EVENTUALLY HAVE
WITH OUR ENABLEMENT OF AT LEAST
TRIPLE XS AROUND THE CITY AND
I'M SO EXCITED TO SEE US MOVE
TOWARDS ENABLING AND ALLOWING
FOR MORE DENSITY.
WE'RE NOT TAKING ANYBODY'S
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES BUT
ALLOWING FOR MORE DENSITY WHICH
ALLOWS FOR MORE
MULTIGENERATIONAL HOUSING WHICH
ALLOWS FOR MORE COMMUNITY BASED
HOUSING.
AND I'M JUST SO EXCITED TO SEE
THAT KIND OF OPPORTUNITY COME
TO DINNER.
THANK YOU.
>> WE HAVE ANOTHER HENDRY'S
TOMSTAD BEAUBOURG.
>> YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
DRESS PLANNING COMMISSION.
GOOD.
GOOD EVENING TOM STOPPARD ONE
TWO ZERO TWO TRAILER STREET
RECEIVED IN MY MAILBOX A TRIFLE
MAILA FROM MY TO WORK ON
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THE MAYOR
IN THERE THE MAYOR LAMENTS
MISINFORMATION OR MISLEADING
INFORMATION.
HOWEVER THAT FLIER ALSO
CONTAINS MISLEADING INFORMATION
ABOUT THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SOME SPECIFIC DETAILS THAT ARE
NOT ACCURATE NOW I KNOW OUR
TAXPAYER MONEY COUNCIL VOTED TO
ALLOW THEM TO SPEND A
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF MONEY ON
THESE TYPE OF MAILERS AND IT'S
SENDING OUT MISLEADING
INFORMATION HOW MUCH TAXPAYER
MONEY WILL THEN BE SPENT TO
SEND THE CORRECTION ACROSS
BOARD WHILE I LEAVE YOU WITH
THAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR STALBERG.
THERE ARE NO FURTHER HANDS
RAISED.
>> GREAT CNN I WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC COMMENT AND MOVE US TO
AGENDA ITEM NUMBER SEVEN
COMMUNICATION FROM
COMMISSIONERS.
>> IS THERE ANY
COMMISSIONER
MILLS I'D JUST LIKE TO THANK
THE COMMENTER FOR BRINGING THIS
ITEM TO OUR ATTENTION AND I
DIDN'T PICK UP A SPECIFIC PLACE
NECESSARY THAT YOU HAD IN MIND
FOR THAT YOU WOULD LIKE IT
EITHER REFLECTED IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR IN FUTURE
ZONING REVISIONS BUT COMING AND
PROVIDING A COMMENT HELPS GET
IN OUR BRAINS FOR WHEN IT COMES
BEFORE US AND SPECIFICALLY IN
THE FUTURE TOO IF THERE'S AN
OPPORTUNITY WHERE YOU'RE SEEING
FEEL FREE TO COME BACK.
>> WE APPRECIATE PARTICIPATION
.
ANYONE ELSE SEEING NONE.
LET'S MOVE TO AGENDA NUMBER
EIGHT PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULE
FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING
MANAGER KELLY.
>> OK, SO THE NEXT MEETING
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
NOT A REGULAR MEETING THAT WILL
BE YOUR RETREAT TAKING PLACE
NEXT TUESDAY STARTING AT 4:00
PM AT THE PLAZA ON THE NORTH
SIDE OF THE SOUTH AND EAST
UNIVERSITY INTERSECTION I'M
TOLD IS THE EAST ENGINEERING
ARCH BY MR. LEO AND SO YOU WILL
FIND US THERE.
WE'LL TRY TO MAKE OURSELVES
VERY VISIBLE THAT WILL NOT HAVE
ANY ACTION ITEMS FOR YOU.
HOWEVER, THE NEXT MEETING AFTER
THAT WILL BE WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 5TH AND STARTING AT
7:00 PM IT'S ON A WEDNESDAY TO
ACCOMMODATE THE ELECTION WHICH
WILL BE ON THAT TUESDAY.
YOU WILL HAVE BEFORE YOU AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE NINE POINT ONE
PARKING REQUIREMENTS FIVE POINT
ONE NINE POINT FIVE USE
OF PARKING FACILITIES AND FIVE
POINT ONE NINE POINT SEVEN
DESIGN A BICYCLE PARKING
FACILITIES CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR TO MODIFY
SECTIONS TO UPDATE BICYCLE
PARKING REQUIREMENTS AND TO
IMPROVE USABILITY, DESIGN AND
ACCESSIBILITY BICYCLE PARKING
FACILITIES.
YOUR STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL THAT IS THE ONLY ITEM.
>> GREAT THANK YOU TO THE
GENTLEMAN THAT JUST WALKED IN.
WELCOME.
THERE'S AN AGENDA ON THE DYAS
WE ARE ON NUMBER EIGHT WELL
NINE NOW UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
SEE THAT THERE IS NONE.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO OUR REGULAR
BUSINESS WHICH IS A PETITION.
>> IT'S UP TO FIVE ZERO ZERO
ZERO NINE THREE FIFTY S FIFTH
AVENUE PUDI SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL A
PROPOSED
SITE PLAN TO DEVELOP A
MIXED USE BUILDING CONTAINING
GROUND FLOOR RETAIL AND THREE
HUNDRED AND THIRTY APARTMENTS
ON A EIGHT ACRE SITE ZONED
THREE FIFTY SELF PUDI BUILD THE
BUILDING WILL BE THREE HUNDRED
AND THIRTEEN THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET AND TWENTY STORIES TALL.
SITE IMPROVEMENTS INCLUDE
CREATING A SHARED SERVICE DRIVE
ALONG THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
SITE FROM SOUTH FIVE TO SOUTH
FOURTH FOR SOLID WASTE ACCESS
AND FUTURE USE BY TRIPLE A T A
FOUR ADDITIONAL BUS BOARDINGS
STAFF RECOMMENDATION APPROVAL
EXCUSE ME APPROVE WITH
CONDITIONS OUR PETITIONERS ARE
HERE AND SO WE WILL START WITH
THE PETITIONERS AND THEN A
PRESENTATION BY PLANNER DELIO
SO YOU CAN MAKE YOUR WAY TO THE
DIOCESE.
I THINK YOU HAVE TEN MINUTES IF
YOU NEED MORE TIME JUST LET US
KNOW.
>> I THINK WE'RE IN AGREEABLE
MOOD TONIGHT OK I DON'T THINK
WE'LL NEED THAT LONG OK I HAVE
MY TEAM HERE THANK YOU FOR
INVITING US.
MY NAME IS JENNIFER HALL.
I'M THE DIRECTOR OF THE ANN
ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION AND WE
HAVE LINDSAY FURCAL WITH SMITH
GROUP AND WE HAVE SOME FOLKS
THAT ARE AVAILABLE BY PHONE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THEY CAN BE LED
INTO THE MEETING.
WE ARE PARTNERING WITH SMITH
GROUP AS WELL AS RELATED
MIDWEST AND SO THEY ARE BOTH
AVAILABLE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
THAT I AM NOT ABLE TO ANSWER
AND
SO THIS IS THE CORNER
OF 5TH AND WILLIAM STREET.
THERE'S CURRENTLY A LARGE
SURFACE PARKING LOT THERE YOU
CAN SEE THE T IN THE BACKGROUND
.
THIS IS A RENDERING OF WHAT WE
WOULD LIKE IT TO LOOK LIKE.
AS I MENTIONED, WE'RE
PARTNERING WITH RELATED
MIDWEST.
WE ALSO ARE PARTNERING WITH
TRIPOLI TO THE DAY AND THE CITY
VAN ARBER, THE ANNENBERG
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
IS ACTUALLY A FIVE ONE C THREE
CREATED BY THE ANN ARBOR
HOUSING COMMISSION.
SMITH GROUP IS OUR ARCHITECT
AND ENGINEERS AND YOU CAN SEE
THE INFORMATION THAT I'M NOT
GOING TO READ IT TO YOU BUT
IT'S THERE FOR THOSE WHO ARE
INTERESTED.
THIS ACTUAL PROJECT HISTORY
COULD GO BACK TO 2003 WHICH IS
WHEN I STARTED WORKING FOR THE
CITY.
THAT IS THE POINT IN TIME WHEN
THE OLD YMCA WAS CONDEMNED WE
HAD TO MOVE ALL THE FOLKS THAT
WERE LIVING THERE IN THE ASTROS
TO HOTELS IN OCTOBER WHICH IF
YOU KNOW HAPPENS IN
OCTOBER IT'S A VERY CHALLENGING
TIME TO HAVE LONG TERM STAYS IN
HOTELS.
THE CITY HAD THE RIGHT OF FIRST
REFUSAL TO ACQUIRE A BUILDING
FROM THE YMCA BECAUSE THEY HAD
PUT FUNDING AS WELL AS INTO
BUILDING SOME OF THOSE S.R.O.
THERE WAS ONE HUNDRED S.R.O.
SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY.
IT WAS TREATED LIKE A HOTEL
FROM THE YMCA PERSPECTIVE BUT
IT WAS MOSTLY USED FOR PEOPLE
WHO ARE TRANSIENT OR COULD NOT
AFFORD TO LIVE ANYWHERE ELSE.
SO WE HAD A LOT OF FOLKS WHO
WOULD OTHERWISE HAVE BEEN
HOMELESS.
SO WE'RE GOING TO SKIP AHEAD TO
TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
A LOT OF BACK AND FORTH
HAPPENED WITH THAT PROPERTY.
MANY OPPORTUNITIES AND
CHALLENGES IN TRYING TO DEVELOP
IT.
BACK IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN I
TALKED TO CITY ADMINISTRATOR
ABOUT COULD WE LOOK AT DOING AN
ANALYSIS OF THE SITE TO TO LOOK
AT WHAT WOULD MAKE SENSE AS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WHICH SHOULD
HAVE BEEN A LITTLE DIFFERENT
THAN HISTORICALLY WHERE CITY
COUNCIL WOULD HAVE A
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT DO WE
WANT TO SEE THERE AND THEN YOU
HAVE TO TRY TO FURE OUT HOW
TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN.
SO I WANTED TO MAKE SURE WE HAD
MORE DATA TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
WAS ACTUALLY FEASIBLE AT THE
TIME AND WE ENDED UP CITY
COUNCIL VERY THANKFULLY AND
UNANIMOUSLY SAID YES, LET'S DO
THAT.
BUT ALSO LET'S LOOK AT ALL
THESE OTHER SITES THE CITY OWNS
THAT ARE UNDERUTILIZED AS
POTENTIAL SITES FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
HERE WE ARE FIVE SIX YEARS
LATER.
THAT'S A REMINDER AND HOW
DIFFICULT IT IS TO DEVELOP
ESPECIALLY A DOWNTOWN LARGE
PROJECT LIKE THIS.
>> IT'S VERY COMPLICATED.
IT'S TAKING A LOT OF EFFORT, A
LOT OF PUBLIC PUBLIC PUBLIC
PUBLIC PARTNERSHIP AND WE ARE
FINALLY HERE TODAY WITH OUR
PLAN FOR APPROVAL WITH THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THE BIGGEST
VALUES DRIVING THE DESIGN AND
THIS PROJECT HAS ALWAYS BEEN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
WE HAD A PD WITH SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS APPROVED IN WHENEVER THAT
DATE WAS BACK THERE.
>> TWENTY TWENTY TWO WITH AN
INTENT TO REBUILD AT LEAST ONE
HUNDRED AFFORDABLE UNITS ON THE
SITE AND WITH AN EXPECTATION
THAT IF WE COULD WE WOULD DO
MORE IN OUR DESIGN THEN WAS TO
HAVE TWO TOWERS.
SOME OF YOU I THINK WE'RE STILL
IN THE PLANNING COMMISSION FROM
BACK THEN AND THAT TURNED OUT
TO BE NOT IT WAS A VERY
EXPENSIVE DESIGN TO HAVE TWO
SEPARATE BUILDINGS WITH
SEPARATE ELEVATORS AND SEPARATE
STAIRS AND EMERGENCY EGRESS ET
CETERA.
AND SO WE ARE NOW PRESENTED TO
YOU A DIFFERENT DESIGN THAT IS
MORE FEASIBLE AND I LIKE IT A
LOT BETTER BECAUSE THERE'S MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO OUR OLD PROJECT HAD BOTH
MARKET RATE AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING TODAY WE ARE ALL THE
UNITS ARE AFFORDABLE.
THE PROPERTY WAS ACQUIRED FROM
THE CITY AND THE
AFFORDABLE
HOUSING THE CITY'S PILOT
ORDINANCE ALLOWS A INCOME
AVERAGE OF 60 PERCENT EMI AND
THE CITY'S TARGET HAS ALWAYS
BEEN 60 PERCENT.
AIMI ON MANY DIFFERENT WAYS TO
GET AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND OUR
INCOME AVERAGE WILL BE LESS
THAN 60 PERCENT.
AM THERE WILL BE SOME UNITS
THAT WILL BE UP TO 80 PERCENT.
AM I IN A LOT OF UNITS WILL BE
AT 30 PERCENT OF AREA MEDIAN
INCOME FOR THOSE WHO DON'T KNOW
WHAT EMI STANDS FOR.
THE SECOND VALUE IS THAT THE
PROPERTY ABUTS THE MAIN TRANSIT
CENTER, THE BLAKE TRANSIT
CENTER AND A HUB AND SPOKE TYPE
SYSTEM AND SO THEY HAVE ALWAYS
WANTED TO BE ABLE TO EXPAND AND
AS A PUBLIC ENTITY IT WAS
IMPORTANT TO US TO PARTNER WITH
THEM TO MAKE SURE THAT WE CAN
OFFER THEM A CHANCE TO EXPAND
AND SO WE'RE ACTUALLY PROVIDING
PART OF OUR SITE FOR THAT AND
THEN OF COURSE FOR THE CITY
SUSTAINABILITY REQUIREMENTS AND
EXPECTATIONS, IT'S AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING.
>> WE HAVE ALMOST I THINK SEVEN
HUNDRED FIFTY FOUR HUNDRED FOOT
GEOTHERMAL HEATING AND COOLING
WELLS AND WE WILL MEET THE
ENTERPRISE GREEN COMMUNITY
CERTIFICATION STANDARDS AS PART
OF OUR FINANCING.
I THINK EVERYBODY KNOWS WHERE
IT IS.
THIS IS THE SITE RIGHT DOWNTOWN
NEXT TO THE BLOCK ACROSS FROM
THE LIBRARY AND I'M GOING TO
TURN IT OVER TO LINDSAY SO SHE
CAN TALK ABOUT THE SPECIFICS
OF THE DESIGN.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M A LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT WITH
SMITH GROUP LEADING A SITE PLAN
APPROVAL PROCESS AND I'VE BEEN
ON THIS PROJECT SINCE I THINK
TWENTY TWENTY TWO WITH THE
ORIGINAL PUDI AND THE TOWER
CONCEPT.
SO THIS IS I PROPOSED PLAN.
YOU CAN SEE THE BUILDING
FOOTPRINT IN LIGHT BLUE.
WE'RE PROPOSING RETAIL ON
WILLIAM AND FOURTH AVENUE
CORNER AND THEN THE RESIDENTIAL
AND AMENITIES ARE ON THE EAST
SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
WE FRONT EAST WILLIAM STREET
AND THE STREETSCAPE JUST MEETS
THE CITY STANDARDS WITH THE
REQUIRED STREET TREES THAT WE
NEED TO HAVE AND LANDSCAPE BEDS
AND CARPET PLANTERS BY KOOPS
LIGHTING AND THEN SOME OPEN
SIDEWALK SPACE FOR POTENTIAL
RETAIL USE OF A TENANT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO HAVE CAFE SEATING
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT UP FIFTH
AVENUE.
THAT'S WHERE THE ENTRANCE TO
THE RESIDENTIAL LOBBY IS.
I HAVE A FLOOR PLAN SHOW THAT
DETAIL ON THE NEXT SLIDE.
I BELIEVE.
BUT WE HAVE AGAIN PRETTY
STANDARD STREETSCAPE AND
TEMPORARY PARKING ZONE FOR
DROPOFFS SUPER JORDACHE ALL
THAT AND THEN MOVING AROUND THE
CORNER OF THE BUILDING YOU SEE
THIS BUS AND SERVICE LANE.
SO THIS IS VERY UNIQUE TO THE
PROJECT.
AS JENNIFER SAID, WE'RE
PROVIDING FOR SPACE FOR THE
TRANSIT CENTER SO WE'RE SHOWING
OUR PLAN INCLUDES THE
COLOURBLIND FOR THOSE BUS BAYS.
AND SO WE'VE WORKED VERY
CAREFULLY WITH TRIPOLI TO TO
ENSURE CIRCULATION AND BUS
MOVEMENTS AND ALL THAT STUFF
THAT JUST WORKS.
BUT THE THE THE PORTION WORTH
OF THE DASH LINE WHERE THOSE
BUSSES ARE IS A SEPARATE
PROJECT THAT WILL BE IT'S AN
EARLY CONCEPT DESIGN BUT WILL
BE COMING LATER DOWN THE
PIPELINE THROUGH FLIGHTPLAN AND
THEN WE HAVE S FOURTH AVENUE.
SO THAT SIDE OF THE PROJECT IS
BEING DESIGNED BY THE SOUTH
FOURTH AVENUE PROJECT TEAM.
SO THAT'S BEING COMPLETELY
CONSTRUCTED NEXT YEAR.
THE PLANS HAVE BEEN DEVELOPED
AND THEY'RE AT 90 PERCENT AND
BEING REVIEWED BY THE CITY
RIGHT NOW WE ARE WIDENING
SIDEWALKS TO PROVIDE MORE
AMENITIES FOR RIDERSHIP, HAVING
TO ADJUST WHERE BUSSES ARE
CURRENTLY TO ACCOMMODATE THIS
NEW DRIVER APPROACH THE THREE
FIFTY S FIFTH AVENUE PROJECT,
NEW STREETSCAPE AMENITIES AND
ALL THAT
.
SO THIS IS THE GROUND FLOOR
PLAN.
SO RETAIL FOURTH AND WILLIAM
RESIDENTIAL AMENITIES AT ON THE
OPPOSITE SIDE AND THE LIGHT
BLUE BOX ON WILLIAM STREET
IS
THE BIKE ROOM.
SO WE'LL HAVE A MIX OF WALL
MOUNTED AND FLOOR MOUNTAIN BIKE
BIKE HOOPS THAT CAN SUPPORT
DIFFERENT TYPES OF BICYCLES AND
THEN A DOOR RIGHT ONTO THE
STREET BIKEWAY SECOND FLOOR IS
A MIX OF ONE AND TWO BEDROOM
APARTMENTS RESIDENCE AMENITIES
SUCH AS THE FITNESS ROOM LOUNGE
AND STORAGE AND THEN SOME
OFFICE SPACE.
AND THEN THE TYPICAL FLOOR PLAN
IS A MIX OF ONE AND TWO
BEDROOMS AS JENNIFER SAID, WE
HAVE GEOTHERMAL HEATING AND
COOLING TO ACHIEVE THE THE
GOALS OF EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN AND
THEN I'LL JUST QUICKLY I TWO
SECONDS SO I'LL QUICKLY SHOW
THE RENDERINGS YOU CAN TAKE
YOUR TIME.
I DON'T HAVE MUCH TO SAY.
I'M AN ARCHITECT.
I'M A LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT BY
ARCHITECT TEAM IS HERE
VIRTUALLY AND I'LL BE HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS BUT THIS
IS STANDING ON FIFTH AVENUE
LOOKING NORTH STANDING AND
WILLIAM LOOKING EAST TOWARD
CAMPUS STANDING ON FOURTH
AVENUE, LOOKING SOUTH TOWARD
THE LAKE AND THEN STANDING ON
WILLIAM STREET AND WITH THAT
POINT OF VIEW THANK YOU SO MUCH
WILL NOW TURN TO PLANO DUILIO
WHO WILL GIVE US A STAFF
REPORT.
YOU ALL CAN HAVE A SEAT WILL
CALL YOU BACK UP WHEN WE FINISH
THE PUBLIC COMMENT AND WE OPEN
THE COMMISSION DISCUSSION
PLANNER DELIO THANK YOU.
WE HAVE PREPARED STAFF REPORT
AND OFFER A RECOMMENDATION AND
A PROPOSED MOTION LINDSAY AND
OR I SHOULD SAY MISAKO IN THIS
HALL HAVE DONE AN EXCELLENT JOB
OF DESCRIBING THE PROJECT.
THE STAFF REPORT DOES CONTAIN A
LITTLE BIT OF THE HISTORY THAT
MISS HALL ALSO COVERED IN MORE
DETAIL AND I I WILL SKIP OVER
THE PLAN THE DESCRIPTION PART
AND MOVE ON TO THE THE SITE
PLAN HAS BEEN REVIEWED AGAINST
THE UDC CODE STANDARDS AS WELL
AS THE THREE FIFTY S FIFTH
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS WHICH
SUPERSEDE SOME OF THE ELEMENTS
OF THE UDC AND WE HAVE FOUND
THAT IT COMPLIES WITH ALL
OF ITS PRE SUBMENTAL
REGULATIONS AS WELL AS THE
REMAINING APPLICABLE STANDARDS
IN THE UDC SUCH AS STORMWATER
AND SO ON AND SO FORTH.
WE IT WAS REVIEWED BY OUR
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW TEAM SEVERAL
DEPARTMENTS AND I SHOULD SAY
THAT THE VERSION BEFORE YOU
TONIGHT IS VERSION TWO OF THE
PLAN REVIEWING A PLAN TWO TO
THREE SOMETIMES FOUR TIMES IS
PRETTY NORMAL.
BUT SINCE THIS IS AN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROJECT IN ORDER TO
HELP IT KEEP ON ITS SCHEDULE WE
ARE RECOMMENDING APPROVAL WITH
CONDITIONS OF VERSION TWO.
SO ULTIMATELY YOU WILL BE
REVIEWING OR I'M SORRY WILL BE
APPROVING VERSION THREE BUT FOR
VERSION TWO SEVERAL DEPARTMENTS
FOUND IT ALREADY COMPLIES AND
THEN A FEW DEPARTMENTS HAVE
REQUIRED REVISIONS AND ONE
MYSELF HAVE JUST OFFERED A
SUGGESTION SOLID WASTE REVIEW
HAS FOUND THAT SOME REVISIONS
ARE NECESSARY.
THE FIRE REVIEW ALSO HAS FOUND
SOME REVISIONS AS WELL AS OUR
SOIL EROSION CONTROL REVIEW,
THE REVIEW AND THE ENGINEERING
REVIEW.
NOW TYPICALLY THE PLANNING
STAFF WE RECOMMEND APPROVAL
WITH CONDITIONS AS OPPOSED TO
POSTPONING IN ORDER TO ADDRESS
THE COMMENTS WHEN RESOLVING
THESE OUTSTANDING ITEMS WOULD
NOT REALLY IMPACT THE
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM OR THE
PROPOSED LAYOUT OF THE PROJECT
WHEN THEY'RE JUST GENERALLY
TECHNICAL IN NATURE SUCH AS
MAYBE ADDING OR CORRECTING A
NOTATION OR MAKING A MINOR
REVISION AND BECAUSE WE HAVE
DETERMINED THAT ADDRESSING
THOSE COMMENTS WOULD BE THAT
LEVEL OF ADMINISTRATIVE OR
TECHNICAL, WE ARE PROPOSING
THAT THE SITE PLAN IS APPROVED
DATED SEPTEMBER 10TH AS AMENDED
SUBJECT TO AND ENTERING INTO A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH FIVE
CONDITIONS AND THE FIVE
CONDITIONS MATCH THE
DEPARTMENTS THAT ARE REQUIRING
REVISIONS.
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY FURTHER
QUESTIONS AS I KNOW THAT MR.
COHEN MISS ARE AS WELL AND I
WILL END IT THERE.
GREAT.
THANK YOU PLANNER DELIO WE WILL
NOW HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT AND I WILL READ
OUR DEDICATED PUBLIC COMMENT
SECTION.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
OF YOU WHO ARE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBERS THEN TO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR UPON PHONE
AND USE THE PHRASE HANSCH
FEATURE AND ZOOM FOR PHONE
ACCESS DIAL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME.
IF YOU ARE ON ZOOME YOU WILL
HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S
YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
ENSURE YOU'RE QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE FOR
ALL PARTICIPANTS WHETHER ONLINE
OR IN PERSON.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
HELLO ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ FOURTEEN
THIRTY LAS VEGAS DRIVE IN THE
FOURTH WARD AND I REALLY LOVE
THIS PROJECT LIKE MANY ARNAB
WRITES MY AGE AND OLDER WE HAVE
MEMORIES OF GOING TO THE Y AT
THIS LOCATION AND TAKING SWIM
LESSONS AND I DID I DID SOME
OTHER OTHER CLASSES THERE AND
STUFF SOME JUDO AND FENCING
YEARS AGO.
I MEAN I WAS LIKE IN MIDDLE
SCHOOL SO YEAH THIS IS THIS IS
GREAT.
IT'S A GREAT LOCATION RIGHT
ACROSS FROM THE LIBRARY RIGHT
NEXT TO THE BUS STATION BUS
STATION I LOVE IT.
IT'S THE DESIGN I REALLY LIKE
THE MATERIALS AND EVERYTHING
THAT'S IT LOOKS REALLY GOOD AND
YOU KNOW THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT I
WAS HOPING FOR WHEN I VOTED FOR
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING VILLAGE
AND IT'S JUST AMAZING TO ME
THAT THAT WE'RE ABLE TO DO THIS
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT AFFORDABLE.
YOU KNOW, I KNOW INITIALLY WE
THOUGHT THIS WAS IT WAS GOING
TO BE LIKE A MIXED INCOME THING
WITH MARKET RATE APARTMENTS AND
ALL OF THAT.
BUT IT BEING, YOU KNOW, GETTING
GETTING THE MIX TO WHERE THERE
YOU KNOW, THE I GUESS THE MOST
EXPENSIVE WILL BE 80 PERCENT AM
I WHICH THAT'S JUST GREAT AND
ALL OF THE IMPROVEMENTS TO THE
STREETSCAPE FOR THE BUS STATION
AND AND ALL THAT IT'S JUST
THANK YOU THANK YOU FOR
BRINGING US FORWARD AND PLEASE
APPROVE THIS.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO'S
PRESENT WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
?
HELLO AGAIN.
THIS IS LENNY LAMPING FROM THE
INTER COOPERATIVE COUNCIL AT
THREE THREE SEVEN EAST WILLIAM
STREET AND I GAVE PUBLIC
COMMENT EARLIER ABOUT GENERAL
INTEREST IN STUDENT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING BEING CONSIDERED FOR
THESE NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
BUT I WANT TO SAY SPECIFICALLY
WE'RE VERY INTERESTED IN BEING
INVOLVED IN THIS PROJECT AT
THREE FIFTY EAST WILLIAM STREET
AND I DON'T KNOW IF NOW IS THE
TIME TO GO INTO SPECIFIC IDEAS
OF HOW WE WOULD WANT TO
FUNCTION WITHIN THAT KIND
OF APARTMENT STYLE SPACE OR NOT
OR I'VE NEVER DONE PUBLIC
COMMENT BEFORE SO I DON'T KNOW
IF I GO AHEAD TAKE QUESTIONS OR
NOT EITHER AT THIS TIME FOR ME
ALL WE CAN WE CAN HEAR YOUR
QUESTIONS.
WE WON'T BE ABLE TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTIONS DURING YOUR TIME BUT
WHEN WE START OUR DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER MAY RESPOND TO A
QUESTION THAT YOU POSE.
>> I SEE.
OK, THEN THE ONE THING THAT
WOULD BE OF PARTICULAR USE TO
US AGAIN IS TO HAVE SOME KIND
OF OFFICE SPACE IN A BUILDING
OF THIS NATURE AND LOOKING AT
THE PLANS THAT HAVE BEEN PUT
FORTH, I SEE THAT THERE IS
OFFICE SPACE FOR WHAT I PRESUME
IS THE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT TEAM
AND I'M WONDERING IF THERE IS
THE POSSIBILITY OF HAVING SPACE
FOR A GROUP LIKE US OR NOT AND
IF NOT THAT'S NOT A DEAL
BREAKER.
WE WOULD BE STILL BE VERY, VERY
INTERESTED AND AGAIN WE HAVE A
YOU KNOW, A WE ARE IN A HOUSING
CRISIS FOR THE STUDENT
POPULATION IN THE CITY
CURRENTLY IN ADDITION TO THE
AFFORDABLE UNITS REQUIRED FOR
MULTI-FAMILY HOMES AND THE
LOCATION OF THREE FIFTY EAST
WILLIAM STREET IS WALKING
DISTANCE TO CAMPUS STRAIGHT
SHOT DOWN EAST WILLIAM STREET
AND WOULD BRING MORE STUDENTS
FROM THE CENTRAL CAMPUS AREA TO
THE DOWNTOWN AREA.
SO THAT'S DEFINITELY SOMETHING
TO CONSIDER AND WOULD
POTENTIALLY YOU KNOW, THERE'S
KIND OF A DIFFERENTIATION
BETWEEN WHERE STUDENTS USUALLY
ARE EXISTING WITHIN THE ANN
ARBOR AREA.
THEY DON'T GO DOWNTOWN ALL THE
TIME SO THAT MIGHT BUILD KIND
OF A GAP THERE AND A YES, WE
HAVE A CAPACITY TO REALLY SCALE
UP OUR OPERATIONS AND THERE'S
EXAMPLES OF THAT IN BERKELEY
AND IN AUSTIN OF VERY, VERY
LARGE CO-OPERATIVES THAT
FUNCTION VERY WELL EVEN IN THE
APARTMENT STYLE UNITS THAT
EXIST
.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
AND I WROTE DOWN YOUR QUESTION
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME MANAGER KELLY, DO WE HAVE
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK?
WE DO.
MARK, YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE PLANET QUESTION OH
MARK SCHERBA THIS TIME CALLING
FROM MEADOWBROOK PARK FIRST
THANK YOU ALL FOR VOLUNTEERING
YOUR TIME.
YOU COULD BE LIKE ME RIDING
BIKES ON A BEAUTIFUL EVENING
AND INSTEAD YOU'RE SITTING IN
CITY HALL DOING THIS IMPORTANT
WORK.
I WANT TO EXPRESS MY SUPPORT
FOR THIS PROJECT.
I'M SO EXCITED TO SEE AN EMPTY
SURFACE PARKING LOT ACTUALLY
SERVE THE CITY AND OUR
POPULATION WITH HOUSING THAT WE
DESPERATELY NEED.
>> I THINK YOU KNOW DOLORES
CURRENTLY HAS HUNDREDS
OF INDIVIDUALS THAT THEY'RE
WORKING WITH TO TRY TO FIND
SECURE HOUSING AND I THINK THIS
PROJECT CAN PUT A PRETTY BIG
DENT IN, YOU KNOW, THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE LOOKING FOR
SECURE HOUSING.
I USED TO LIVE DIRECTLY ACROSS
THE STREET ON THE CORNER
OF WILLIAMS AND 5TH AND I
LOOKED OUT MY WINDOW AT THIS
DESOLATE PARKING LOT.
I'VE RUN THROUGH THAT PARKING
LOT WHEN TRYING TO CATCH A BUS
ON ONE SIDE THE OTHER AND I'M
SO EXCITED TO THINK ABOUT A
FUTURE WHERE THIS IS HOUSING.
THIS IS A BUS EXPANDED BUS
STATION.
THIS IS GIVING PEOPLE AS
PREVIOUS SPEAKER SAID, DIRECT
ACCESS TO THE UNIVERSITY ALONG
THE WAY.
SO IT'S JUST A FANTASTIC
PROJECT.
IT'S A GREAT USE OF OR
COMBINATION EFFORT FROM SOME
OF OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PARTNERS ALONG WITH OTHER KIND
OF NATIONAL PARTNERS TO BUILD
THIS HOUSING.
SO I'M REALLY EXCITED ABOUT IT.
PLEASE VOTE YES IN FAVOR
OF THIS PROJECT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> THANK YOU.
I AM ALSO VERY PLEASED TO SEE
THIS HUNDRED PERCENT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT ARE MADE
POSSIBLE THE ACTIONS OF MANY
OVER A LONG PERIOD OF TIME
PEOPLE WHO VOTED FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING VILLAGE
PASSED COUNCILS.
I AM DISAPPOINTED TO SEE THE
LACK OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
BEING EFFECTIVELY ADDRESSED IN
OUR CURRENT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
.
IF THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS
NOT IN THERE, IT'S NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN.
RELYING ON THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING VILLAGE AS PART
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS JUST
PENNIES OF WHAT WE NEED AND
HIGHLY INSUFFICIENT.
WE NEED TO HAVE DIRECT MEASURES
IN OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO
ALLOW FOR ADDITIONAL AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND ALSO WHAT I'D CALL
ATTAINABLE HOUSING THAT WHAT
WOULD BE BEYOND THE GOVERNMENT
NUMERICAL FORMULAS THAT STILL
MODERATE HOUSING IS DESPERATELY
NEEDED IN ORDER AND IS NOT
PROVIDED FOR IN OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
IT'S ACTUALLY REDUCED BY THE
ACTIONS THAT WILL COME FROM OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I'M DISAPPOINTED IN THE SALE
DECLINES LIKE IF THAT MONEY
ISN'T ALL GOING INTO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING I THINK IT'S A MISTAKE
SO PERHAPS THAT COULD BE DONE
STILL THERE'S AN OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEND MONEY THAT WE RECEIVED
MCCLYMONTS ENTIRELY ON
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT SEEMED
TO BE THE INTENT WHEN WE VOTED
FOR THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MILLICH THAT WE WOULD DEVELOP
AFFORDABLE HOUSING LOTS LIKE
WE'RE DOING HERE AT THE OLD
WALMART.
SO AGAIN I THINK BIGGEST PART
OF THE CLEAN SLATE AND IF WE
ARE GOING TO LET'S PUT 100
PERCENT OF THAT MONEY TOWARDS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING A MASSIVE
DISAPPOINTED IN SOME OF THE
WAYS WE'VE LOST OPPORTUNITIES
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
LOWERTOWN SOUTHTOWN THE CURRENT
DEVELOPMENT OF COURSE BASES ON
WILLIAM STREET RIGHT THERE THE
LAW WAS CHANGED JUST PRIOR TO
THEIR APPROVAL RELIEVING THEM
OF THE BURDEN OF A NUMBER
OF UNITS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
.
SO ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE CURRENT
AND SOME RECENT COUNCILS HAVE
COST US TENS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS FOR REAL HOUSING OR
HUNDREDS OF UNITS OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IF WE DON'T TAKE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING SERIOUSLY AT
THE COUNCIL TABLE AND THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TABLE, IT'S
NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.
I HOPE WE CAN MAKE SOME CHANGES
TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN YET
TO SUPPORT AFFORDABLE HOUSING A
LOT BETTER THAN WE HAVE IT.
>> THANK YOU.
THAT WAS OUR FINAL COLOR BREAK.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC COMMENT
AND READ THE MOTION.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVED SITE PLAN
ESPIE TO FIVE ZERO ZERO ZERO
NINE THREE FIFTY S FIFTH AVENUE
DATED SEPTEMBER 10TH TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE AS AMENDED SUBJECT
TO ENTERING INTO AND SATISFYING
ALL TERMS OF THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT WITH THE FOLLOWING
CONDITIONS.
ONE RESULT THE BUS LANE
CONFLICTS WITH SOLID WASTE
COLLECTION TO THE SATISFACTION
OF THE SOLID WASTE MANAGER AND
SATISFACTORILY ADDRESS THE
REMAINING COMMENTS PROVIDED IN
SOLID WASTE REVIEW MEMO TO
STATUTE EXCUSE ME
SATISFACTORILY ADDRESS THE
COMMENTS PROVIDED IN THE FIRE
REVIEW TO MEMO SATISFACTORILY
ADDRESS THE COMMENTS PROVIDED
FOR IN VERSION TWO OF THE S E
SC REVIEW SATISFACTORILY
ADDRESS THE COMMENTS PROVIDED
IN THE DDA REVIEW TO MEMO AND
SATISFACTORILY ADDRESS THE
COMMENTS PROVIDED IN THE
ENGINEERING REVIEW TO MEMO MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER MILLS'S READY TO
KICK US OFF.
>> I'M SO EXCITED TO SEE US
BEFORE US AND REALLY THOUGHT
THAT WE HAD APPROVED SO UH I'M
GLAD THAT IT COMPLIES WITH WHAT
WE HAD TALKED ABOUT YEARS AGO.
CAN YOU HELP REFRESH MY MEMORY?
ONCE UPON A TIME I KIND
OF THOUGHT THAT THERE WAS A
PLAN THAT THE BUILDING MIGHT
EXTEND FARTHER TO THE NORTH
OVER TOP OF THE BUS DEPOT AND
I'M CURIOUS MY READING OF THE
PLANS AND AS YOU'VE TALKED
ABOUT IT SUGGESTS THAT THEY
DON'T AND I'M CURIOUS TO LEARN
WHY I MEAN THIS IS THIS IS
LOVELY AND IT IMPLIES I'M JUST
I REMEMBER DO YOU REMEMBER THE
CONVERSATION FUMES?
YEAH.
I'M GOING TO ASK IF JEFF OR JOE
HAPPENS TO BE ON THE CALL.
I DON'T BELIEVE THEY'RE
ARCHITECTS BUT I DON'T BELIEVE
THEY WERE ON OUR ORIGINAL PLAN
AS ARCHITECTS.
BUT I FEEL LIKE WHEN WHEN YOU
STARTED WE ALSO TOOK A LOOK AT
THAT AS WE WERE DESIGNING THIS
BUILDING AND I'M NOT AN
ARCHITECT BUT I KNOW THERE'S
REASONS WHY WE DID NOT DO THAT
OR EITHER ONE OF YOU ABLE TO
ANSWER THAT QUESTION.
I KNOW HOW TO DO LIKE DISTANCE
OF HALLWAYS AND LENGTH
OF APARTMENTS.
THERE WAS NO ADVANTAGE IS MY
RECOLLECTION.
JEFF HAS JOINED PANELIST
YOU'VE
PERMISSION TO SPEAK LEADERS.
YOU MEAN?
YES, YES, YES.
I'M SORRY AS I WAS JOINING
AUDIO IT WHEN I SO I DIDN'T
CATCH THE END OF WHAT JENNIFER
WAS SAYING BUT I BELIEVE THE
QUESTION IS WHY DOES NOT WHY
DOES THE DESIGN NO LONGER GO
OVER THE BUS LANES IN THAT
AREA?
SO I THINK IF YOU REMEMBER
EARLIER IN THE CONVERSATION
JENNIFER PRESENTED THERE WAS A
MUCH GREATER EXPENSE TO THE
PREVIOUS DESIGN.
IT WAS IT WAS ESSENTIALLY TWO
HIGH RISE TOWERS IN ONE WITH
TWO SETS OF ELEVATORS AND TWO
SETS OF STAIRS AND THE
DEVELOPMENT WAS COST
PROHIBITIVE.
SO AS WE CREATED A SINGLE
BUILDING SOLUTION, WE THEN MOVE
TO SOMETHING THAT WAS MUCH
SIMPLER AND EASIER TO CALL.
SO IT WAS BIGGER.
IT MIGHT REQUIRE MORE OF THAT.
YES, THERE STUFF RIGHT.
WELL I REALIZE I MAY HAVE
MISUNDERSTOOD YOUR QUESTION
AFTER OUR ORIGINAL DESIGN WAS A
TI RIGHT WAS PART OF THE PART
OF THE TI OVER TOP OR THE TOP
AND NOW IT'S LIKE A LITTLE
SETBACK LIKE THAT.
EXACTLY.
OK AND THERE'S ONLY SO MUCH
DISTANCE JEFF I TO SPEAK TO
THAT TO HAVE A DOUBLE SIDED
HALLWAY IT GIVES YOU ANY
ADVANTAGE TO DOING THAT
DENSITY.
>> OK I WAS JUST CURIOUS AGAIN
I DON'T I'M NOT WEDDED TO THAT
AND IN MY MIND I WAS THINKING
IN PART THE YOUR PARTNER IN
DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPS OVER
TRANSIT THINGS AND SO MAYBE
THAT'S IN THE FUTURE LIKE THAT
THE POTENTIAL IN THE FUTURE I
DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S BEEN
DISCUSSED.
>> YEAH.
SOME OF THE CHALLENGES IN OUR
OLD DESIGN WE ACTUALLY HAVE
GRETCHEN JOHNSON HERE FROM THE
TRIPOLI TO YOU.
SHE'S A PLANNER THERE SO SHE
MIGHT BE ABLE TO SPEAK TO SOME
OF OUR CHALLENGES WITH THAT
DESIGN OF GOING OVER THE LANE
WERE THE HOW LARGE COLUMNS HAD
TO BE TO SUPPORT THE BUILDING
BUILDING AND IT'S SET IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE SIDEWALK WHERE WE
WANTED TO HAVE PEOPLE BE ABLE
TO WALK TO GET ON AND OFF THE
BUS.
SO IT CAUSED LIKE CONGESTION TO
HAVE THOSE BIG COLUMNS THERE.
>> OK, TWO COMMENTS.
>> ONE MORE QUESTION
GEOTHERMAL.
I'M EXCITED TO SEE THIS YEAR I
WAS SURPRISED BECAUSE I THOUGHT
THERE WAS A PARKING GARAGE
UNDERNEATH THERE WHERE IT IT'S
UNDER YOUR SITE NOT IN THE ROAD
RIGHT OF WAY OR ANYTHING.
SO THE PARKING GARAGE IS
UNDERGROUND.
YEAH.
IS NOT UNDER OUR SITE.
IT WAS DESIGNED IT IF YOU
WANTED TO EXPAND IT THERE IS A
PLACE YOU COULD PUNCH A HOLE
IN
AND DIG AND DO ADDITIONAL
PARKING UNDER OUR SITE WHICH IS
EXTREMELY EXPENSIVE WHICH IS
WHY WE DID SO THERE'S NO
PARKING UNDERNEATH OR SO YOU'RE
YOU'RE ABLE TO USE THE
GEOTHERMAL THERE.
>> YES.
AWESOME.
YES.
THE CURRENTLY A 2D TWO AND OR I
MEAN THE RIDE OR THE AIR DO TWO
TO THREE AND I'M SORRY YOU KNOW
WHAT I'M SO BUT THEIR RIDE
PICKS UP ON THAT CURVE AND SO
PRESUMABLY THAT'LL BE EITHER
TAKEN CARE OF ON THE FOURTH
AVENUE RECONFIGURATION OR THIS
SNAZZY NEW LANES BEHIND TO THE
NORTH OF YOUR BUILDING.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
I DON'T THINK WE FIND LIES
WHERE THAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN
BUT THAT'S BEEN IN DISCUSSION
BECAUSE THAT MAKES SENSE FOR
THE DROP OFF.
AND I JUST WANT TO SAY YOU'VE
SET A NEW STANDARD ON LOCATION
OF BIKE ROOMS.
IT IS PRIME REAL ESTATE AND IT
IS THE PLACE THAT MAKES SENSE.
IT IS RIGHT ON THE BICYCLE WHAT
MY CHILDREN CALL THE BICYCLE
HIGHWAY.
IT IS ACCESSIBLE FROM OUTSIDE.
>> I LIKE THAT IT'S SHOWN THAT
THERE'S AUTOMATIC DOOR OPENERS.
I ASSUME THAT IT'S KEY FOB OR
SOMETHING SO THAT NOT EVERYBODY
CAN GO IN THERE SERIOUSLY LIKE
I REALLY, REALLY APPRECIATE
THAT YOU HAVE GIVEN MADE THIS A
CONVENIENT OPTION AND MADE IT
WHERE BIKE RIDERS WANT TO GO
NOT NEXT TO THE TRASH IN THE
BACK THROUGH THE BACK RIDE LIKE
THIS.
>> I SEE YOUR KUDOS SO THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER MILLS COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE.
SO I JUST KIND OF PIGGYBACK ON
SOME OF THOSE BECAUSE I HAD
SIMILAR THINGS DOWN FIRST
OF ALL OH I'M SO EXCITED ABOUT
THIS AND I HOPE COMES TO
FRUITION AS I'M SURE YOU DO
MORE EVEN MORE SO BUT UM YEAH.
I WAS THE KID AT THE Y WHEN THE
FIRST ONE MAYBE EVEN GOT BUILT
AND THEN WHEN IT WAS DEMOLISHED
AND THEN WE GOT SO MANY THINGS
ARE GOING TO HAPPEN AND I HOPE
THIS IS THE ONE THAT ACTUALLY
HAPPENS.
>> BUT I DID HAVE SOME
QUESTIONS SO AGAIN THE MICHIGAN
FLIER IN THE D TO A TWO BUSSES
I'M ASSUMING THAT THE INTENT IS
TO KEEP THOSE SERVICES DOWNTOWN
AND I'M I'M EYEBALLING IT HERE
JUST BECAUSE I JUST THINK THEY
ARE REALLY THEY'RE REALLY
VALUABLE SERVICES AND I WOULD
HATE FOR THIS TO BE SEEN AS A
THING THAT GOT RID OF THOSE
SERVICES THOUGH, RIGHT.
THE FULL INTENT IS TO KEEP THEM
DOWNTOWN.
WE ARE WE'RE LOSING A LITTLE
BIT OF CAPACITY ON FOURTH AND
SO THE NEW BASE ON THE BACK
SIDE OF THE BLAKE WILL MAKE UP
FOR THAT BUT FULLY TRYING TO
KEEP THE REGIONAL BUSSES AS
CLOSE AS WE CAN TO THE BLAKE
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE WE HAVE
ENOUGH SPACE FOR OUR BUSSES AND
THE SERVICE THAT WE WANT TO
PROVIDE.
YEAH, OK.
I THAT SOUNDS GREAT AND THEN
ELECTRIC BIKE PLUG INS,
ELECTRIC BIKE SERVICE BECAUSE
THAT REALLY SEEMS TO BE I'M NO
LONGER GOING TO ASK ABOUT CAR
PARKING BUT I DO THINK ELECTRIC
BIKES ARE KIND OF SUDDENLY THE
THE THING OF THE CURRENT AND
FUTURE AND I DON'T KNOW IF
THAT'S BEEN THOUGHT OF I KNOW
THERE ARE ISSUES ABOUT THAT BUT
IS IT ANYTHING ON YOUR RADAR OR
I WISH I HAD A LOT
OF CONVERSATIONS.
JOSEPH, IF YOU CAN JOIN THE
CONVERSATION HE WAS ONE OF THE
DESIGNERS PROMOTED JOSEPH AND
HE HAD TO ON PROMOTE HIMSELF.
I WELL I DON'T I NO LONGER SEE
JOSEPH.
>> I THINK HE HAD ANOTHER
MEETING MAYBE JOINED BY PHONE
IF YOU COULD PROMOTE MICHAEL I
HAVE MICHAEL CAPLAN AND JEFF
RIBBECK WHO ARE AVAILABLE TO
SPEAK OK, EITHER ONE OF THEM
WOULD BE OR DENISE ANY ONE
OF THEM TO SPEAK.
OK, MICHAEL OR JEFF PLEASE.
UH GO AHEAD AND ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION.
HI EVERYBODY.
MICHAEL RELATED MIDWEST.
I THINK THAT'S A GREAT COMMENT
AND I'M GOING TO LET JEFF
ANSWER TO THE FEASIBILITY OF IT
BECAUSE IF WE CAN DO IT I THINK
WE SHOULD DO IT.
YES.
SO WE DO HAVE THE BIKE ROOM
WHICH IS LOCATED AS I MENTIONED
IN THE TWEET PROMINENT LOCATION
AND IT ACTUALLY HAS GLASS ON
IT.
SO WE ARE ACTUALLY OUT
PROMOTING IT AS IS IS AN
AMENITY.
>> THE CHARGING IS IS GOING TO
BE PROVIDED.
WE ARE STILL WORKING THROUGH
THE FINAL DESIGN DRAWINGS.
WE HAVEN'T IDENTIFIED THE TOTAL
AMOUNTS OR ANY OF THOSE TYPES
OF THINGS.
BUT THIS IS THIS IS A DESIGN
ELEMENT THAT WE ARE ABSOLUTELY
CONSIDERING.
I CAN TELL YOU FROM JUST BUYING
AN ELECTRIC BIKE SOMEBODY ELSE
MIGHT HAVE WON IN TALKING TO
THE SALES PERSON.
IT'S THE HIGHER END BIKES.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
THE FIRES BUT IT'S WHEN YOU BUY
LIKE THE KNOCKOFF SORT
OF CHEAPER PLUGS.
THAT'S WHAT CAUSES FIRES.
SO THAT'S THE CONCERN WE HAVE
WE'RE HAVING THE SAME
CONVERSATIONS AT OTHER SITES IF
THERE'S WAYS TO MAKE SURE
THERE'S NOT GOING TO BE A FIRE
BECAUSE YOU DEFINITELY DON'T
WANT THAT ON YOUR FIRST FLOOR
OR ANYWHERE NEAR YOUR BUILDING,
THEN WE WILL FIGURE IT OUT.
OK, AWESOME.
AND THEN I THINK MY WELL AIR
QUALITY AND I THINK THE TIME
ENOUGH TIME HAS PASSED THAT I
THINK MOST OF THE BUSSES ARE
ELECTRIC OR WE'RE GETTING THERE
QUITE I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S I
MEAN THAT'S I DON'T THINK IT'S
AS MUCH OF AN ISSUE AS IT WAS
AND WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
PUTTING HOUSES RIGHT OVER THE
BUSSES BUT STILL ADJACENT TO
THE BUSSES.
YEAH, ADJACENT BUSSES THE WE
HAVE ALL DIESEL OR HYBRID
BUSSES AND FOR THE FORESEEABLE
FUTURE THAT'S WHAT WE WILL BE
PURCHASING.
WE HAVE PLANS TO EXPLORE
HYDROGEN STILL UNCERTAIN IF
THAT'S THE FULL DIRECTION THAT
WILL GO SO BUSSES LAST TWELVE
YEARS ROUGHLY.
SO I MEAN WE HOPE TO START
TRANSITIONING SOON TO PURCHASE
YOUR EMISSION VEHICLES BUT IT'S
STILL VERY MUCH AND IT'S A LONG
TIME LINE OUT FOR BUSSES AND SO
STILL WHICH IS GREAT ABOUT
BUSSES THAT THEY LAST THAT
LONG.
SO YES.
YEAH SO VERY HEAVY VEHICLES.
OK, THANK YOU.
AND THEN I JUST HAVE ONE LAST
QUESTION WHICH IS CONSTRUCTION
SO CONSTRUCTION AS WE'VE ALL
SEEN CAN LAST MULTIPLE YEARS
AND UH DOWN THE STREET THE BIKE
LANE WAS LEFT OPEN DURING THE
CONSTRUCTION THE TOWER THAT'S
GOING UP AND IS THAT SOMETHING
THAT WE CAN KEEPING KEEPING THE
BIKE THE BIKE LANE OPEN DURING
CONSTRUCTION UNLIKE SOME OF THE
OTHER BUILDINGS AROUND TOWN
WHERE THEY JUST CLOSE OFF THE
SIDEWALK AND THE BIKE LANES
THAT THIS IS GOING TO BE A
REALLY TRICKY PLACE TO JUST
CLOSE OFF.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF I ASSUME
YOU'VE THOUGHT ABOUT THIS BUT
BUT ARE THERE PLANS TO KEEP THE
BIKE LANE OPEN AS MANY
SIDEWALKS OPEN AS POSSIBLE
BECAUSE THE BUSSES I ASSUME ARE
STILL GOING TO BE RUNNING
THROUGHOUT ALL THIS
CONSTRAINTS.
I MEAN THIS IS ONE OF THE MANY
CHALLENGES OF THIS PARTICULAR
SITE, PARTICULARLY WITH TRANSIT
AND FIGURING OUT WHAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN DURING CONSTRUCTION.
I KNOW WE'VE HAD MANY
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THAT,
MICHAEL.
MY RECOLLECTION IS THAT WE HAVE
TO KEEP THAT BIKE LANE OPEN AND
SO WE HAVE TO PROTECT IT.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING ELSE YOU
LIKE TO ADD RELATED TO THAT?
>> I DON'T I THINK IT IS A
CHALLENGE.
THE LOGISTICAL PLAN IS IN
DETAIL WHAT I DO I BELIEVE FOR
A PORTION THAT IT MAY NOT BE
ACCESSIBLE BUT I WOULD NEED TO
I THINK WE NEED A LITTLE BIT
MORE DETAIL ON EXACTLY THE
PLANNING AS FAR AS BEING ABLE
TO GET MATERIALS IN AND HAVE IT
BE SAFE AS ANY TYPE OF PLAN
THAT WE PUT IN PLACE DOES HAVE
TO GO THROUGH AND GET APPROVED
BY THE TRANSPORTATION DENHA TO
MAKE SURE IT MEETS THEIR
REQUIREMENTS.
SO WE WILL ABSOLUTELY DO WHAT
WE'RE REQUIRED TO DO TO PROTECT
THAT.
YEAH, AND WE AGREE WITH THAT
THE VALUE OF KEEPING IT OPEN.
>> SO THAT WILL BE CERTAINLY
THE GOAL AND INDEED IT'S BEEN A
GREAT PARTNER IF THERE'S A
REASON WE HAVE TO TEMPORARY
LEAVE MOVE IT TO A SAFE ROUTE
THAT WILL HAPPEN.
I MEAN THEY'LL WORK WITH US IN
DOING THAT.
>> OK, AWESOME.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE
COMMISSIONER NORTON, I JUST
HAVE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS AND
I'M CURIOUS YOU JUST OUT
OF CURIOSITY MORE THAN ANYTHING
ELSE YOU'D MENTIONED THAT EARLY
ON YOU THOUGHT YOU WERE GOING
TO HAVE TO DO SOME MARKET RATE
HOUSING AND BE ABLE TO DO ALL
FLORIDA WELL AND I'M CURIOUS
WHY IS IT ALL BEING COVERED IN
THIS VERY WEIRD FINANCING THE
MARKETPLACE PRODUCT THEY'RE
AVAILABLE.
IT'S JUST LIKE CONSTANTLY
CHANGING AND WHEN WE DID A
NATIONAL SELECTION PROCESS FOR
A CO DEVELOPER BRINGING IN
RELATED MIDWEST WHO'S DONE IS
VERY COMPLICATED.
THEY DO MARKET RATE BUT THEY
ALSO DO DEDICATED ALL
AFFORDABLE AND SO THEY'VE
ACTUALLY BEEN A GREAT PARTNER
IN FIGURING OUT HOW PUT THE
RIGHT FINANCING TOGETHER IN
DIFFERENT WAYS AND MICHAEL CAN
TALK MORE DETAIL ABOUT IT.
THERE'S MORE IT'S MORE FEASIBLE
WITH THE FUNDING THAT'S
AVAILABLE TO MAKE A LOWER
INCOME AFFORDABLE UNIT FEASIBLE
TO BUILD COMPARED TO A MARKET
RATE BECAUSE YOU HAVE A SUBSIDY
THAT YOU CAN ADD TO IT WHEREAS
IF YOU'RE TRYING TO BUILD
MARKET RATE AND IT'S COSTING
YOU FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS A UNIT, YOU HAVE TO
HAVE REALLY, REALLY, REALLY
HIGH RENTS TO BE ABLE TO MAKE
BACK THE
COST OF TAKING ON THE
DEBT TO BUILD THAT.
AND SO WE HAVE I DON'T I MEAN
LAYERS OF DIFFERENT TYPES
OF FUNDING WE HAVE WE HAVE
FOURTEEN OUR DUMBA TOWER.
I DON'T THINK WE HAVE THAT MANY
YET HERE BUT WE HAVE A LOT.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD
TO THAT, MICHAEL?
YEAH, I THINK THAT'S EXACTLY
RIGHT.
I THINK ONE THING THAT'S
CHANGED IN THE TAX CREDIT
PROGRAM WHICH IS SORT OF THE
KEY FUNDING LINCHPIN TO THESE
TYPES OF PROJECTS IS THE
ABILITY TO INCOME AVERAGE WHICH
I THINK WAS YOU KNOW, SOMETIME
AROUND TWENTY NINETEEN OR SO.
BUT THAT EIGHT PERCENT UNIT IS
ACTUALLY MORE FEASIBLE THAN THE
MARKET UNIT, ESPECIALLY WHEN
YOU'RE THINKING OF DOING A
THIRD OF THE BUILDING WITH ONE
TYPE OF UNIT, YOU KNOW
SOMETIMES HAVING A SMALL
PORTION OF THE BUILDING B
MARKET RATE CAN BE A CHALLENGE
TO ACHIEVE YOU KNOW, FIVE
DOLLARS PER SQUARE FOOT IN RENT
FOR THE 80 PERCENT AM SORT
OF SERVES THAT PURPOSE.
IT'S A DISCOUNT TO MARKET BUT
IT IS STILL ON IT IS IT IS SORT
OF A MODERATE INCOME LEVEL AND
SO ULTIMATELY THE PLAN HERE I
SUBSTITUTE FOR THOSE UNITS IN
FOUR FOR THE MARKET UNITS IS
IT'S WORTH KIND OF PULLED THE
LAST PIECES TOGETHER AND ALSO
GENERATED SUPPORT FROM THE
OTHER PARTIES THAT ARE HELPING
TO FUND IT.
>> AND WHEN MICHAEL IS TALKING
ABOUT INCOME AVERAGING SO THE
BIGGEST SOURCE OF FINANCING,
YOU KNOW, IS LOW INCOME HOUSING
TAX CREDITS AND IT USED TO BE
60 PERCENT AM I WAS THE HIGHEST
INCOME THAT YOU COULD USE TAX
CREDITS ON AND THE INCOME
AVERAGING ALLOWS YOU TO AND IS
AN INCENTIVE TO SERVE LOWER
INCOME HOUSEHOLDS AS WELL.
AND THAT'S WHY WE HAVE 30
PERCENT IN MY HOUSEHOLDS AND WE
HAVE 80 PERCENT.
WE HAVE 60 PERCENT.
AND SO WHEN YOU AVERAGE
TOGETHER AVERAGES LESS THAN 60
PERCENT AND AS MICHAEL SAID,
THAT'S A CHANGE IN THE IRS
CODE THAT ALLOWS US TO DO THAT
.
AND WILL YOU BE PROVIDING
SERVICES TO OR IT'S NOT JUST
HOUSING YOU'RE ALSO GOING TO BE
PROVIDING.
YES.
HOUSING AND ALL THE 30 PERCENT
AIMI HOUSEHOLDS HAVE WHAT WE
CALL PROJECT BASED VOUCHERS AND
SO THEY'LL HAVE A RENT SUBSIDY
ATTACHED TO THEM SO THEY WILL
ALL PAY 30 PERCENT OF THEIR
INCOME ON RENT.
AND THEN I JUST HAVE ONE MORE
QUESTION IF I COULD.
I'M JUST CURIOUS DO YOU FORESEE
ANY TROUBLE MEETING THE
CONDITIONS THAT YOUR STAFF HAVE
IDENTIFIED?
ARE THEY'RE ALL DOABLE THINGS
RIGHT?
I DON'T SEE A PROBLEM MEETING
THEM.
NO, THANK YOU.
THIS IS A GREAT SHOOT.
YOU BRING THIS FORWARD AS
QUICKLY AS YOU DID AND THANK
YOU.
YEAH.
YOU WANT TO GO?
I CAN GO IF YOU WANT MORE TIME
I HAVE ONE TINY QUESTION OK?
YEAH I JUST HAVE A TINY
QUESTION THAT EMERGED FROM WHAT
YOU JUST SAID SO I I REMEMBER
WHEN WE ON COUNCIL PASSED THE
INCOME AVERAGING SO THAT YOU
COULD USE SO WHEN YOU AVERAGE
EVERYTHING DOES IS THE AVERAGE
EIGHTY OR IS THE AVERAGE SIXTY
IT'S LESS THAN 60 ISN'T IT
MICHAEL.
>> IT'S MORE LIKE IN THE FIFTY
FIFTY SEVEN IS IT DOES IT HAVE
TO IT COULD IT BE EIGHTY OR
DOES IT HAVE TO BE IT HAS TO BE
SIXTY OR UNDER.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YES OK THAT WAS THE THING I
WANTED TO MAKE SURE I
UNDERSTAND COMMISSIONER ADAMS
OK I JUST HAVE SOME LIKE CAN
YOU HELP ME UNDERSTAND THE
QUESTIONS SO WE WILL START WITH
THE CAPITAL STACK WHICH YOU WE
ARE JUST IN AND FOR THOSE WHO
ARE LISTENING IN THE CAPITAL
STACK JUST SORT REFERS TO THE
LAYERS OF FINANCING THAT MAKES
A PROJECT LIKE THIS WORK.
AND SO YOU HAVE BUILT A STACK
OF TOOLS ACCORDING TO THE PLAN
YOU ARE ESTIMATING THE PROJECTS
GOING TO COST ABOUT TWO HUNDRED
AND TWENTY MILLION DOLLARS TO
CONSTRUCT CORRECT.
SO THAT BRINGS THE UNIT COST TO
SIX HUNDRED AND SIXTY SIX
THOUSAND DOLLARS PER UNIT.
IS THAT ACCURATE?
THAT SOUNDS RIGHT.
IS THAT RIGHT?
MICHAEL?
MICHAEL'S OUR FINANCE.
IT INCLUDES THE EVERYTHING THAT
ALTHOUGH ONE ONE CAVEAT I WILL
SHARE IS THAT AGAIN ON TAX
CREDIT PROJECT WHERE WE'RE
LIVING OUTSIDE INVESTMENT THAT
ARE INVESTING IN THESE TAX
CREDITS, ONE THING WE DO IS WE
INCLUDE CERTAIN COSTS THAT HAVE
OFFSETTING SOURCES.
SO FOR INSTANCE, YOU MIGHT HAVE
LAND THAT'S CONTRIBUTED.
WE STILL SHOW THAT COST
SIMILARLY WHEN IT COMES TO
DEVELOPER FEET WE'RE ACTUALLY
REINVESTING DEVELOPER FEE IN
THE PROJECT.
YOU DO IT FOR PURPOSES OF THE
TAX CREDIT BUT IT DOES TEND TO
SORT OF INFLATE THE TOTAL
BUDGET.
I WOULD SAY IT'S MORE LIKE FIVE
SEVENTY FIVE THOUSAND FOR UNIT
STILL A VERY HIGH NUMBER.
>> YEAH, I WAS GOING TO SAY
THAT THAT'S JUST A EIGHTY
EIGHTY THOUSAND DOLLAR CUT PER
UNIT PAGONE YEAH BUT IT IS IT
IS STILL EXPENSIVE I WILL SAY
THE OTHER PIECE OF THE PUZZLE
HERE IS ONE OF THE GOALS OF THE
PROJECT WAS TO I THINK SET A
NEW HIGH WATERMARK IN TERMS
OF SUSTAINABILITY.
THOSE THINGS COME WITH THE COST
THE BENEFIT ANOTHER THE
GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM FOR INSTANCE.
THAT'S NOT CHEAP .
THAT COMES WITH A TAX CREDIT AS
WELL.
SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, IN A
WORLD WHERE IF YOU'RE BUILDING
JUST MARKET RATE AND YOU'RE NOT
PURSUING SOME INCENTIVES, YES,
THE COST WOULD BE LOWER.
BUT THIS IS MORE THAN JUST A
HOUSING.
I THINK THERE'S KIND OF A
BROADER DEMONSTRATION THAT'S
PART OF THIS PROJECT.
SO JUST A QUICK FOLLOW ON TO
THAT.
MICHAEL, I HAVE YOU YOU
INDICATED THAT THE DEVELOPER
FEE IS BEING REINVESTED.
IS THAT A TYPICAL APPROACH IN A
DEVELOPMENT LIKE THIS?
I HAVEN'T HEARD OF SUCH A THING
AT THE TABLE.
>> IT IS IN A LOW INCOME
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT THAT IT IS
COMMON.
THE MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, THEY
GOVERN THE PROGRAM AND ALLOCATE
THE TAX CREDITS.
THEY HAVE A FORMULA FOR HOW
MUCH DEVELOPER FEE YOU CAN TAKE
IT.
I THINK IT'S MORE THAN YOU KNOW
ON A PROJECT OF THIS SIZE IT
BECOMES A BIG NUMBER BUT THE
SMART THING TO DO RATHER THAN
TO REDUCE THE FEE IS TO MAKE A
CONTRIBUTION BACK TO THE
PROJECT.
SO WE'RE BASICALLY LOANING IT
BACK TO THE PROJECT.
>> OK, SO AND THIS IS WHERE I'M
LEARNING AND SO I WANT GET SOME
INFORMATION.
SO THE TAX STRUCTURE FOR THIS
IS GOING TO BE A PILOT SO A
PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES FOR
THE PROPERTY TAXES.
CORRECT.
CAN YOU JUST BRIEFLY GIVE US A
SENTENCE OR TWO OF WHAT THAT
WHAT THAT MEANS FOR THE CITY
AND FOR THIS DEVELOPMENT?
SURE.
IT'S GOING TO BE COMPLICATED
AND I'LL BRING MICHAEL IN
BECAUSE WE ACTUALLY HAVE A
PILOT FOR THE RESIDENTIAL WHICH
IS A PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.
IT'S ALLOWED UNDER THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN HAS A PILOT
ORDINANCE.
>> YOU HAVE TO BE A CERTAIN
KIND OF PROJECT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING THROUGH LOW INCOME
HOUSING TAX CREDITS MAKES YOU
AN ELIGIBLE FOR A PILOT.
THE CITY HAS TO ADOPT THEIR OWN
ORDINANCE WHICH IT HAS CITIES
ORDINANCE IS ONE DOLLAR PER
UNIT PER YEAR FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING THAT QUALIFIES NOT
EVERY PROJECT THAT'S AFFORDABLE
QUALIFIES.
IT HAS TO MEET THE LEGAL
STANDARDS BUT WE ALSO HAVE JUST
BEEN INVITED BY MDC TO DO A
TRANSFORMATIONAL BROWNFIELD
WHICH IS MORE EVEN MORE COMPLEX
HATED TAX IMPLICATIONS OF TO
MICHAEL TALK ABOUT THAT.
YES.
SO TRANSFORM BROWNFIELD IT
PROVIDES A PROGRAM FOR MICHIGAN
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION.
IT IS A TOOL TO RECAPTURE
ESSENTIALLY ALL STATE TAXES
THAT THE PROJECT GENERATES AND
THAT INCLUDES INCOME TAXES PAID
BY CONSTRUCTION WORKERS DURING
THE CONSTRUCTION PERIOD.
SALES TAX ALSO SOME OPERATING
ASSUMPTIONS AS FAR AS TAX
CAPTURE SO THAT THAT PIECE
OF FUNDING IS AN INCOME STREAM
THAT WILL COME IN IN THE FUTURE
THAT WE'RE ABLE TO BORROW
AGAINST AND WE'RE EXPECTING
THAT'LL BE ABOUT SIX TO EIGHT
MILLION DOLLARS.
IT WOULD BE LARGER IF THAT
WASN'T THE PILOT.
BUT AS FAR AS RECAPTURING STATE
INCOME TAXES, THAT'S ANOTHER
EIGHT DOLLARS MILLION.
ESSENTIALLY THE STATE IS
CONTRIBUTING IS ALSO
CONTRIBUTING EIGHT MILLION
DOLLARS.
>> OK, I'M GOING TO STAY IN
THIS FINANCE THING BECAUSE THIS
IS A VERY COMPLICATED PROJECT
AND I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE I
UNDERSTAND WHO'S GOING TO BE
THE OWNER OF THE LAND IS THAT
GOING TO BE THE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OR IS
IT THE COMMISSION OR IS IT THE
CITY?
>> SO THE RIVER HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION WHICH
IS OUR ONE THREE WE CURRENTLY
OWN THE LAND AND WE'RE GOING TO
DO WHAT WE'VE DONE ON ALL
OF OUR OTHER PROJECTS WHERE
WE'VE DONE LITTLE FINANCING,
WHERE WE WILL DO A GROUND LEASE
TO THE OWNER OF THE PHYSICAL
BUILDING AND THAT'S ALL OF OUR
PROPERTIES ARE DONE THAT WAY.
AND SO THAT PHYSICAL BUILDING
IS OWNED BY IT'S CALLED THE LOW
INCOME HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY INCOME HOUSING WITH
THE LIMITED DIVIDEND.
>> THANK IS OUR LUNA DIVIDEND
HOUSING ASSOCIATION.
YOU'RE REQUIRED TO CREATE ONE
UNDER THE IRS CODE FOR LOW
INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDITS AND
THAT'S HOW YOU ARE ABLE TO GET
AN EQUITY INVESTOR WHO PROVIDES
CASH.
THEY PROVIDE EQUITY FOR YOUR
PROJECT AND THEN RELATED AND
THE HOUSING COMMISSION WE'VE
EACH FORMED NEW LEGAL ENTITIES
THAT WILL BE SORT OF LIMITED
ASSET TO THIS ONE ASSET AND WE
ARE PARTNERING TOGETHER AS A
GENERAL PARTNER SO WE'RE
TOGETHER AS A GENERAL PARTNER.
WE'LL PARTNER TOGETHER WITH OUR
EQUITY PARTNER AND THAT WILL BE
OUR ENTITY THAT WILL OWN THE
BUILDING.
SO WE'LL CONTINUE TO BE PART
OF THE OWNERSHIP BUT WE WILL
OWN THE LAND.
SO IF THE BUILDING
DOWN WHICH I
HOPE WOULD NEVER IN A MILLION
YEARS HAPPENED WE WOULD STILL
OWN THE LAND UNDERNEATH IT
WHICH HAS A PERMANENT DEED
RESTRICTION THAT WAS PUT ON BY
THE CITY WHEN THEY SOLD US THE
PROPERTY.
>> AND YOU'RE ALSO THE
CODE DEVELOPER HERE, THE
DEVELOPER.
THAT'S RIGHT AS WELL.
THAT'S CORRECT.
SO IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
MISHNA DOES TOO GRANTING
PERIODS OF YEAR ONE IN
OCTOBER FOR PROJECTS LIKE THIS.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
THEY I THINK YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT WHAT'S A NINE PERCENT
NINE AND THE FOUR PERCENT?
YEAH, WE'RE DOING A FOUR
PERCENT.
SO YOU'RE NOT DOING NINE
PERCENT TO NINE PERCENT.
>> WE'RE DOING A FOUR PERCENT
WHICH COMES WITH BOND FINANCING
THROUGH MR THEY PROVIDE
CONSTRUCTION LOAN THROUGH BOND
SALES AND THEN IT TURNS INTO A
PERMANENT LOAN AT THE END
OF THE PROJECT SIZE FOR WHAT WE
CAN AFFORD AND THEY'RE ALSO
PUTTING IN GET FINANCING AND
WHICH IS MY NEXT QUESTION
BECAUSE HOW ARE YOU FILLING IN
THE GAP BECAUSE MY CALCULATIONS
ABOUT 60 TO 70 PERCENT WOULD
COME THROUGH THE LOW INCOME TAX
BUT THEN YOU STILL HAD ABOUT 80
TO 90 MILLION DOLLARS THAT YOU
HAD TO FINANCE BUT ON NO.
>> MICHAEL, DO YOU WANT TO GO
THROUGH THE CAPITAL SPEC?
DO YOU HAVE IT IN FRONT OF YOU?
YES.
SO AND I APPRECIATE YOUR
INDULGENCE THAT I CAN GET THESE
QUESTIONS ASKED.
I I'VE BEEN THINKING ABOUT THIS
FOR A WHILE OF COURSE.
>> SO YOU'RE RIGHT.
THE TWO BIGGEST PIECES OF THE
CAPITAL STACK ARE DEBT AND
EQUITY EQUITY COMES FROM THE
SALE OF THE TAX CREDITS AND
DEBT IS THIS BOND FINANCING
INITIATIVE WHICH GETS REPAID
WITH THE INCOME AFTER EXPENSES
THAT THE PROPERTY GENERATES
TOGETHER.
>> THOSE WORK OUT TO ABOUT IT'S
ABOUT SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT
OF THE PROJECT COSTS I WAS
ESTIMATING SEVENTY BUT THAT'S
GOOD.
YEAH THEN WE HAVE ESSENTIALLY
OUR SUBSIDY SOURCES.
IT'S ABOUT EIGHT MILLION FROM
AND I SHOULD SAY IF YOU'RE
COUNTING UP TO TWO TWENTY
THAT'S WHERE I WOULD ADD THAT
SOME OF THESE SOURCES AND USES
THERE ARE SOME LINES THAT ARE
ON BOTH SIDES OF THE EQUATION
UNDERSTOOD FIGURE IT'S MORE
LIKE TWO HUNDRED BETWEEN THE
DEBT AND EQUITY.
IT'S SOMETHING LIKE ONE HUNDRED
AND THIRTY FIVE.
I WANT TO SAY YOU HAVE ANOTHER
EIGHT MILLION THAT COMES FROM
THE FEDERAL SUBSIDY STUFF
THAT'S THOSE ARE HOME FUNDS
EIGHT MILLION ABOUT WHICH IS
BORROWED FROM THE MEDICI FUNDS.
WE HAVE ABOUT FOUR MILLION IN
INVESTMENT TAX CREDITS THAT ARE
FROM THE GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM AND
THEN THE LAST CHUNK IS ABOUT
FORTY MILLION DOLLARS NEEDED TO
CLOSE THE GAP THAT IS MONEY
THAT WE'VE IDENTIFIED IT WILL
COME FROM A VARIETY OF SOURCES
BUT WILL ALL FUNNEL THROUGH THE
NRA OR HOUSING CORPORATION.
JENNIFER, MAYBE IT WOULD MAKE
SENSE IF YOU WANT TO TALK
THROUGH WHAT SOME OF THOSE
SOURCES ARE WITHIN THAT BUT IT
SURE SO WITHIN THAT FORTY
MILLION WE'RE PULLING SMALL
WELL MILLION DOLLARS BUT NOT
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
FROM VARIOUS LOCATIONS.
SO EAGLE FOR BROWNFIELD THE
HOUSING COMMISSION HAS TO BE
THE APPLICANT WASHTENAW COUNTY
BROWNFIELD AUTHORITY PROBABLY
BE ABOUT A MILLION AS WELL.
THE D.A. HAS FUNDS IN IT AND AS
WE'RE PULLING THESE TOGETHER
FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK
DIFFERENT LOCATIONS, DIFFERENT
TYPES OF FUNDS, WHATEVER IS
LEFT WILL END UP BEING A
REQUEST TO CITY COUNCIL TO DO A
BOND SALE PAID BACK WITH FUTURE
MILLAGE.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO GET IT DOWN
IN LIKE THE THIRTY THIRTY THREE
MAYBE THIRTY FOUR MILLION
DOLLARS SO WE DON'T NEED
FORECLOSING BECAUSE WE DON'T
HAVE IT BECAUSE WE NEED OVER
TIME UNTIL THE END OF THE
MILLAGE.
SO IT MIGHT BE TWO AND A HALF
MILLION DOLLARS A YEAR FOR
EXAMPLE TO PAY BACK THAT BOND
OVER THE LENGTH OF THE MILLAGE
AND THAT ALLOWS US TO BRING
THAT CAPITAL IN UP FRONT FOR A
LARGE PROJECT LIKE THIS.
>> OTHERWISE WE WOULD NOT HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO DO IT.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO PAUSE AND JUST
CHECK THE TABLE BECAUSE I HAVE
JUST TWO OR THREE MORE
QUESTIONS.
>> SO I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU
FOR WHAT YOU'VE DONE SO FAR.
SURE.
IS IT OK?
YOU ALL CAN TELL ME NO.
NO.
OK, SO TALK TO HELP ME
UNDERSTAND THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
TRUST FUND AS A FUNDING SOURCE
AND AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILLICH
BECAUSE I JUST LEARNED THEY ARE
DIFFERENT I GUESS SO THE WHAT
USED TO BE CALLED THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND
IS NOW CALLED THE ANN ARBOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
IT'S BEEN AROUND SINCE THE
NINETEEN EIGHTIES AND IT WAS
INTENDED TO BE A PLACE WHERE
DEVELOPER CONTRIBUTIONS COULD
GO GENERAL FUND CONTRIBUTION
SALES FROM THAT THE D
CONTRIBUTIONS WOULD GO YES OK
GREAT.
YES.
ZONING OR THINGS LIKE THAT.
I'M SORRY TO YEAH NOT OK SO HAS
YES.
HAD SOME MONEY MAYBE A COUPLE
I'M SORRY TO YEAH NOT OK SO HAS
OF MILLION AT MOST I THINK WHEN
HAD SOME MONEY MAYBE A COUPLE
THE Y LOT SOLD THE CONTRIBUTION
OF MILLION AT MOST I THINK WHEN
THAT CAME FROM THAT FROM THE
THE Y LOT SOLD THE CONTRIBUTION
CITY IT IS I WANT TO SAY IT WAS
THAT CAME FROM THAT FROM THE
AROUND THREE AND A HALF MILLION
CITY IT IS I WANT TO SAY IT WAS
DOLLARS WE WERE ABLE TO USE
AROUND THREE AND A HALF MILLION
THAT TO REDEVELOP ALL OF OUR
DOLLARS WE WERE ABLE TO USE
PUBLIC HOUSING SITES.
THAT TO REDEVELOP ALL OF OUR
I THINK THAT'S THE MOST IT EVER
PUBLIC HOUSING SITES.
HAD UP UNTIL THIS YEAR IT OFTEN
I THINK THAT'S THE MOST IT EVER
HAD ZERO.
HAD UP UNTIL THIS YEAR IT OFTEN
SO WHEN THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
HAD ZERO.
MILLAGE IS ADOPTED THERE WAS NO
SO WHEN THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MONEY IN THE HOUSING FUND IT
MILLAGE IS ADOPTED THERE WAS NO
STILL EXISTS BUT WE'VE RECENTLY
MONEY IN THE HOUSING FUND IT
HAD PROBABLY PROJECTS YOU ALL
STILL EXISTS BUT WE'VE RECENTLY
ARE FAMILIAR WITH BECAUSE YOU
HAD PROBABLY PROJECTS YOU ALL
HAD TO APPROVE THEM WHERE
ARE FAMILIAR WITH BECAUSE YOU
DEVELOPERS MADE CASH
HAD TO APPROVE THEM WHERE
CONTRIBUTIONS INTO THAT FUND.
DEVELOPERS MADE CASH
SO I JUST CHECKED THE OTHER DAY
CONTRIBUTIONS INTO THAT FUND.
THERE'S ABOUT FIVE POINT EIGHT
SO I JUST CHECKED THE OTHER DAY
MILLION DOLLARS IN THAT
THERE'S ABOUT FIVE POINT EIGHT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
MILLION DOLLARS IN THAT
THE HOUSING COMMISSION
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
ADMINISTERS THAT FUND BUT WE
THE HOUSING COMMISSION
AREN'T THE ONLY ONES THAT WOULD
ADMINISTERS THAT FUND BUT WE
SPEND IT.
AREN'T THE ONLY ONES THAT WOULD
IT CAN GO TO OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
SPEND IT.
THAT'S DIFFERENT AND THAT'S
IT CAN GO TO OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
HELD BY THE CITY AND WE WOULD
THAT'S DIFFERENT AND THAT'S
HAVE TO GO TO CITY COUNCIL
HELD BY THE CITY AND WE WOULD
PROJECT BY PROJECT TO DRAW
HAVE TO GO TO CITY COUNCIL
FUNDS DOWN FROM THAT THE
PROJECT BY PROJECT TO DRAW
MILLAGE IS ITS OWN SET OF FUNDS
FUNDS DOWN FROM THAT THE
JUST OWN I DON'T KNOW I DON'T
MILLAGE IS ITS OWN SET OF FUNDS
KNOW WHAT THE CITY WOULD CALL
JUST OWN I DON'T KNOW I DON'T
THE CITY TRACKS ALL THAT THEY
KNOW WHAT THE CITY WOULD CALL
COLLECT TAXES.
THE CITY TRACKS ALL THAT THEY
THEY PUT IT INTO A SEPARATE
COLLECT TAXES.
ACCOUNT SO IT'S TRACKED
THEY PUT IT INTO A SEPARATE
SEPARATELY THE CITY CONTRACTS
ACCOUNT SO IT'S TRACKED
WITH THE HOUSING COMMISSION TO
SEPARATELY THE CITY CONTRACTS
ADMINISTER THOSE FUNDS AND
WITH THE HOUSING COMMISSION TO
AGAIN WE AREN'T THE ONLY ONES
ADMINISTER THOSE FUNDS AND
THAT WOULD USE IT OTHER
AGAIN WE AREN'T THE ONLY ONES
DEVELOPERS CAN USE IT AS WELL
THAT WOULD USE IT OTHER
WHEN THERE'S MONEY AVAILABLE
DEVELOPERS CAN USE IT AS WELL
RIGHT NOW THE MILLAGE IS VERY
WHEN THERE'S MONEY AVAILABLE
TIED UP IN THIS PROJECT IN
RIGHT NOW THE MILLAGE IS VERY
MULTIPLE OTHER PROJECTS WE'RE
TIED UP IN THIS PROJECT IN
WORKING ON.
MULTIPLE OTHER PROJECTS WE'RE
SO WHEN THE VILLAGE WAS ADOPTED
WORKING ON.
IN TWENTY TWENTY FUNDS FIRST
SO WHEN THE VILLAGE WAS ADOPTED
CAME INTO THE PROJECT TWENTY
IN TWENTY TWENTY FUNDS FIRST
TWENTY ONE THAT WAS THE FIRST
CAME INTO THE PROJECT TWENTY
TIME FUNDS WERE AVAILABLE.
TWENTY ONE THAT WAS THE FIRST
THE FIRST YEAR THERE WAS
TIME FUNDS WERE AVAILABLE.
ROUGHLY SIX AND A HALF MILLION
THE FIRST YEAR THERE WAS
.
ROUGHLY SIX AND A HALF MILLION
NOW THERE'S ROUGHLY ABOUT SEVEN
.
AND A HALF MILLION THAT COMES
NOW THERE'S ROUGHLY ABOUT SEVEN
IN ANNUALLY INTO THAT FUND AND
AND A HALF MILLION THAT COMES
IT CAN BE USED FOR PROJECTS
IN ANNUALLY INTO THAT FUND AND
BOTH FOR PROJECTS UP TO 60
IT CAN BE USED FOR PROJECTS
PERCENT.
BOTH FOR PROJECTS UP TO 60
AM I WITH A SPECIFIC TARGET FOR
PERCENT.
THIRTY PERCENT AM I LIKE IF YOU
AM I WITH A SPECIFIC TARGET FOR
APPLIED AND YOU HAVE SOME 30
THIRTY PERCENT AM I LIKE IF YOU
PERCENT AMITE UNITS SET ASIDE
APPLIED AND YOU HAVE SOME 30
YOU WOULD HAVE MORE PREFERENCE
PERCENT AMITE UNITS SET ASIDE
OVER SOMEONE WHO ONLY HAS SIXTY
YOU WOULD HAVE MORE PREFERENCE
PERCENT AM I FOR EXAMPLE A
OVER SOMEONE WHO ONLY HAS SIXTY
FOLLOW UP RIGHT WHERE WE ARE SO
PERCENT AM I FOR EXAMPLE A
THE MILLAGE IS INCOME
FOLLOW UP RIGHT WHERE WE ARE SO
RESTRICTED AT NO MORE THAN 60
THE MILLAGE IS INCOME
AND I BUT YOUR OTHER FUNDING
RESTRICTED AT NO MORE THAN 60
SOURCES MAY NOT HAVE THAT
AND I BUT YOUR OTHER FUNDING
RESTRICTION SO THAT IS ALSO WHY
SOURCES MAY NOT HAVE THAT
YOU'RE ABLE TO DO THIS UP TO 80
RESTRICTION SO THAT IS ALSO WHY
PERCENT HERE IN ADDITION TO THE
YOU'RE ABLE TO DO THIS UP TO 80
INCOME AVERAGES TO ALLOW FOR
PERCENT HERE IN ADDITION TO THE
THIS WHOLE THING TO BE
INCOME AVERAGES TO ALLOW FOR
AFFORDABLE IN MY UNDERSTANDING
THIS WHOLE THING TO BE
THIS QUARTER.
AFFORDABLE IN MY UNDERSTANDING
CORRECT.
THIS QUARTER.
SO WHEN THE CITY SOLD THE
CORRECT.
PROPERTY TO US AND I THINK
SO WHEN THE CITY SOLD THE
TWENTY TWENTY TWO TWENTY THREE
PROPERTY TO US AND I THINK
WE DID A APPRAISAL I THINK THE
TWENTY TWENTY TWO TWENTY THREE
YEAR BEFORE THAT I THINK THE
WE DID A APPRAISAL I THINK THE
APPRAISAL WAS ABOUT TWELVE
YEAR BEFORE THAT I THINK THE
MILLION IF I RECALL ISH AND THE
APPRAISAL WAS ABOUT TWELVE
CITY SOLD IT TO US FOR SIX
MILLION IF I RECALL ISH AND THE
POINT TWO SO RIGHT THERE IT'S
CITY SOLD IT TO US FOR SIX
ABOUT A FIFTY PERCENT DISCOUNT
POINT TWO SO RIGHT THERE IT'S
ON THE VALUE OF THAT LAND.
ABOUT A FIFTY PERCENT DISCOUNT
>> SO IN MY MIND I WOULD WANT
ON THE VALUE OF THAT LAND.
AT LEAST 50 PERCENT OF THE
>> SO IN MY MIND I WOULD WANT
UNITS TO BE SIXTY PERCENT OR
AT LEAST 50 PERCENT OF THE
LESS.
UNITS TO BE SIXTY PERCENT OR
WE'RE MORE LIKE SIX DEER SIX
LESS.
ALMOST TWO THIRDS OF OUR UNITS
WE'RE MORE LIKE SIX DEER SIX
ARE MORE MICHAEL.
ALMOST TWO THIRDS OF OUR UNITS
SIXTY PERCENT OR LESS WITH A
ARE MORE MICHAEL.
LOT OF THEM AT THIRTY PERCENT
SIXTY PERCENT OR LESS WITH A
AM I HALF OF THEM ARE BELOW 60
LOT OF THEM AT THIRTY PERCENT
PERCENT AND THEN HALF OR 70 AND
AM I HALF OF THEM ARE BELOW 60
80 BUT WE HAVE SOME AT SEVENTY
PERCENT AND THEN HALF OR 70 AND
TWO.
80 BUT WE HAVE SOME AT SEVENTY
I FORGOT ABOUT THAT SO WE'RE WE
TWO.
ARE MEETING THE INTENT OF THAT
I FORGOT ABOUT THAT SO WE'RE WE
SOURCE OF FUNDS NOT JUST THE
ARE MEETING THE INTENT OF THAT
INTENT OF THE ACTUAL THE ACTUAL
SOURCE OF FUNDS NOT JUST THE
TO AND WITH THE PROJECT COSTING
INTENT OF THE ACTUAL THE ACTUAL
TWO HUNDRED AND TWENTY MILLION
TO AND WITH THE PROJECT COSTING
IF WE END UP PUTTING EVEN IF WE
TWO HUNDRED AND TWENTY MILLION
PUT THIRTY FIVE OR FORTY
IF WE END UP PUTTING EVEN IF WE
MILLION IN MILLAGE IT'S STILL A
PUT THIRTY FIVE OR FORTY
SMALL PERCENT OF THE TOTAL
MILLION IN MILLAGE IT'S STILL A
DEVELOPMENT COSTS AND FOR THE
SMALL PERCENT OF THE TOTAL
PUBLIC I WOULD JUST SAY I WOULD
DEVELOPMENT COSTS AND FOR THE
NEVER WANT TO USE MILITARY
PUBLIC I WOULD JUST SAY I WOULD
FUNDS AS A SOURCE LOCAL
NEVER WANT TO USE MILITARY
KNOWLEDGE FUNDS AS A SOURCE FOR
FUNDS AS A SOURCE LOCAL
DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE THERE'S
KNOWLEDGE FUNDS AS A SOURCE FOR
OTHER PLACES YOU CAN LEVERAGE
DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE THERE'S
LIKE WE'RE DOING EVEN THOUGH
OTHER PLACES YOU CAN LEVERAGE
IT'S A LOT OF WORK, IT'S A LOT
LIKE WE'RE DOING EVEN THOUGH
OF BRAIN DAMAGE, IT TAKES A LOT
IT'S A LOT OF WORK, IT'S A LOT
OF TIME.
OF BRAIN DAMAGE, IT TAKES A LOT
IT STRETCHES OUT THOSE FUNDS SO
OF TIME.
YOU CAN DO MORE PROJECTS NOW
IT STRETCHES OUT THOSE FUNDS SO
THAT'S ALL.
YOU CAN DO MORE PROJECTS NOW
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
THAT'S ALL.
EXPLAINING THIS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
THIS IS REALLY, REALLY
EXPLAINING THIS.
COMPLICATED AND IT JUST GOES TO
THIS IS REALLY, REALLY
HOW DIFFICULT IT IS FOR US TO
COMPLICATED AND IT JUST GOES TO
ACHIEVE OUR GOALS OF CREATING
HOW DIFFICULT IT IS FOR US TO
PERMANENT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
ACHIEVE OUR GOALS OF CREATING
FOR THOSE WHO ARE AT NEED.
PERMANENT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
I JUST HAVE TWO MORE QUESTIONS.
FOR THOSE WHO ARE AT NEED.
ONE HAVE YOU CONSIDERED BURN
I JUST HAVE TWO MORE QUESTIONS.
BOXES FOR THE CHARGING OF YOUR
ONE HAVE YOU CONSIDERED BURN
EBI BECAUSE THAT CAN BE A WAY
BOXES FOR THE CHARGING OF YOUR
FOR YOU TO ENSURE THAT EVEN THE
EBI BECAUSE THAT CAN BE A WAY
LOWER QUALITY BATTERIES WON'T
FOR YOU TO ENSURE THAT EVEN THE
HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT.
LOWER QUALITY BATTERIES WON'T
YES, WE'RE ACTUALLY EXPLORING
HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT.
THAT AT ANOTHER SITE RIGHT NOW
YES, WE'RE ACTUALLY EXPLORING
SO WE'LL SEE THAT GOES IT WILL
THAT AT ANOTHER SITE RIGHT NOW
BE THAT THAT SITE WILL BE UP
SO WE'LL SEE THAT GOES IT WILL
AND RUNNING WAY BEFORE THIS ONE
BE THAT THAT SITE WILL BE UP
AND WE WILL KNOW HOW THAT GOES
AND RUNNING WAY BEFORE THIS ONE
FOR US.
AND WE WILL KNOW HOW THAT GOES
>> OK, AND THEN MY LAST
FOR US.
QUESTION IS DO YOU ANTICIPATE
>> OK, AND THEN MY LAST
AT ALL YOUR CONSTRUCTION
QUESTION IS DO YOU ANTICIPATE
OVERLAPPING WITH THE NEW
AT ALL YOUR CONSTRUCTION
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT?
OVERLAPPING WITH THE NEW
ARE YOU IN TALKS WITH THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY ABOUT YOUR
CONSTRUCTION AND THERE'S NOT
RECENTLY BUT WE WILL HAVE TO
ALONG WITH ANY OTHER BUSINESSES
IN THE AREA WHEN WE GET TO THAT
POINT WE ARE HOPING TO CLOSE WE
NEED TO CLOSE IN THE SPRING
OF TWENTY TWENTY SIX OUR
CONSTRUCTION PERIOD WILL GO
THROUGH THE END OF TWENTY
TWENTY EIGHT.
>> OK SO IT'LL BE A TWO YEAR
CONSTRUCTION CYCLE.
GREAT THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
YOUR TIME, YOUR EXPERTIZE AND
YOUR PATIENCE WITH MY
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE OTHER QUESTIONS FROM
OTHER COMMISSIONERS?
JUST HOW MUCH OF THAT KNOWLEDGE
WILL THIS PARTICULAR PROJECT
CONSUME?
I THINK IT'LL END UP BEING
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 30 THREE AND
THIRTY FIVE MILLION DOLLARS OUT
OF THE TWO TWENTY FOR THE WHOLE
PROJECT BUT THAT'S SPREAD OUT
OVER MULTIPLE YEARS SPREAD OUT
FROM HERE TO THE END OF THE
LIFE OF THE VILLAGE WHICH IS A
TWENTY YEAR TO TWENTY YEAR
MILITARY IN OTHER IS THERE'S
STILL PLENTY OF MILEAGE TO
LEVERAGE OTHER PROJECTS.
YEAH YEAH YEAH THEY'RE
RECEIVING TAKING ALL OF THE
MILITARY YEAH.
THEY'RE RECEIVING ABOUT SEVEN
AND A HALF MILLION A YEAR AND
THAT IS THE ADVANTAGE.
>> I MEAN THAT'S A HUGE
ADVANTAGE FROM MY PERSPECTIVE
ON DOING THE BOND FINANCING AND
PAYING BACK WITH THE MILLAGE
OTHERWISE I WOULD HAVE TO BANK
IT BANK BANK IT, BANK IT, BANK
IT THEN BUILD SOMETHING.
BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG
BANG BANG.
BUILD SOMETHING THIS WAY WE CAN
HAVE MULTIPLE PROJECTS GOING ON
AT THE SAME TIME I JUST AN
UPDATED LIST FOR CITY COUNCIL.
WE HAVE OVER TWELVE HUNDRED
UNITS RIGHT NOW BUILT THERE IN
THE PIPELINE THAT HAVE MILLION
DOLLARS IN THEM.
OK OK THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SEEING NO OTHER QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YOU CAN RETURN TO YOUR SEATS I
DON'T THINK WE'RE GOING TO ASK
YOU ANY MORE QUESTIONS AT THIS
POINT MANAGER KELLY.
I THINK WE WERE READY FOR A
ROLL CALL VOTE ON THE MOTION AS
PRESENTED WISCH YES.
>> ENTHUSIAST DISH YES.
MILLS YES.
WHETHER IT BE YES.
ADAMS YES.
NORTON YES.
THAT CARRIES THE MOTION CARRIES
GOOD LUCK.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.
WE WILL MOVE NOW TO ITEM NUMBER
ELEVEN OTHER BUSINESS THERE IS
NONE THAT BRINGS US TO ITEM
NUMBER TWELVE.
ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE WHO
ARE PRESENT WITH US IN THE
CHAMBERS.
THEN WE WILL TURN TO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK FOR MOST
OF THEM REMOTELY PRESS NINE ON
PHONE OR USE THE RACE HAND
FEATURE IF ON ZOOM FOR PHONE
ACCESS DIAL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
IDENTIFY THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR BY
NAME IF ON ZUN A FEW HERE YOU
WILL HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
ENSURE YOU'RE IN QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE FOR
ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
HEY ADAM SAVAGE, LAS VEGAS
DRIVER IN THE FOURTH WARD.
I JUST WANT TO THANK FOR THAT
DISCUSSION.
I LEARNED SO MUCH FROM THAT SO
THANK YOU FOR ASKING ALL THOSE
QUESTIONS AND AND THANK YOU FOR
ANSWERING THEM.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME SEEING NONE.
>> MANAGER KELLY, DO WE HAVE A
PARTICIPANTS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK?
>> THERE IS ONE HENDRY'S PHONE
NUMBER ENDING AND SIX SEVEN DO
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION OR
THREE MINUTES
THIS HAND WAS
RAISED QUITE A BIT EARLIER.
I'M NOT SURE IF THEIR INTENTION
WAS TO SPEAK OR NOT.
>> WELL, WE'LL GIVE IT JUST A
FEW MORE MOMENTS.
>> I HAVE NUDGED OUR CALLER TO
UNMUTED
.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL GO AHEAD AND CLOSE THE
PUBLIC COMMENT AND MOVE US TO
ITEM NUMBER THIRTEEN IS THERE
ANY COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS COMMISSIONER MILLS?
>> IT'S NOT REALLY COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS BUT I WANTED
TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU GOT YOUR
QUESTION ANSWERED.
I SAW A BUSINESS CARD EXCHANGED
HANDS AND JUST WANTED TO SAY
THAT OFTENTIMES LIKE HOW SPACE
IS USED WITHIN BUILDINGS IS
OUTSIDE OF OUR PURVIEW.
WE WITHIN ZONING WE REGULATE
KIND OF THE USES WITHIN A
BUILDING.
BUT JUST LIKE WE OFTEN KNOW
WHETHER THE INTENTION IS FOR IT
TO BE RENTAL OR FOR SALE UNITS
BUT WE DON'T REGULATE THAT WAY
AND SO IT'S NOT THAT WE DIDN'T
ASK IT, I THOUGHT IT WAS TAKEN
CARE OF .
BUT JUST SO YOU KIND
OF UNDERSTAND HOW WHAT IS
WITHIN OUR PURVIEW, I WILL
ALLOW IT TO COME UP.
MIKE, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
THAT.
I APPRECIATE THAT EXPLANATION.
I GUESS MY QUESTION IS IS THERE
ANYTHING WITHIN THE ZONING THAT
EXISTS CURRENTLY THAT WOULD
PREVENT COOPERATIVE HOUSING
FROM BEING CONSIDERED IN THE
USAGE OF THIS SPACE?
THAT'S A REALLY GOOD QUESTION
AND WE HAVE TO CHECK THE YOUTH
TABLE BECAUSE EFFECTIVELY
WHAT'S ALLOWED HERE THIS IS
SPECIAL REGULATIONS ON THIS
PARTICULAR PROPERTY.
>> AND SO BUT THEY REFERENCED
WHAT IS ALLOWED IN OUR DOWNTOWN
ZONES SO GIVE ME A MINUTE AND I
PROMISE I'LL OPEN UP THE UDC
UNLESS STAFF IS ALREADY DOING
THAT LIKE I LIKE.
>> BUT I AFTERWARDS I CAN SHOW
YOU WHERE TO FIND OUT.
YES.
AND I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THAT
WE I BELIEVE ARE NO LONGER
ASSOCIATED WITH FRATERNITIES
AND SORORITIES GREEK LIFE UM
AND WE ARE A SEPARATE ENTITY
FROM THAT IF THAT CHANGES AND
CONSIDERATION IT DEFINITIONS.
>> YES.
AH THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
ACTUALLY IT MAKES IT A LITTLE
BIT COMPLICATED.
>> SO UM TURN TO PLAN OR LELIO
BECAUSE YOU SEEM TO GRAB
SOMETHING AND MOVE YOUR MIKE
CLOSER.
DID YOU HAVE AN ANSWER FOR US.
>> I WILL HAVE TO CONSULT THE
UDC IF YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
GROUP HOUSING BUT IF YOU ARE
TALKING ABOUT THE APARTMENTS
STYLE WITH UP TO SIX UNRELATED
PERSONS PER APARTMENT THAT IS
CERTAINLY PERMITTED.
THAT'S A THAT'S JUST REGULAR
RESIDENTIAL USE AND LIKE AS
MENTIONED WE DON'T THE UDC DOES
NOT ACTUALLY REGULATE SO WE ARE
COMPLETELY OPEN TO WHETHER THEY
ARE OWNED OR AT LEAST OR RENTED
OR GIVEN AWAY FOR FREE OR
BARTERED OR COOPERATIVELY
MANAGED.
>> OK, I THINK IT'S A SEPARATE
DESCRIPTOR THEN EVEN GROUP
HOUSING I THINK COOPERATIVE AT
LEAST AT THE STATE LEVEL IS
CONSIDERED SOMETHING ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT THAN GROUP HOUSING
BUT IT MIGHT BE DIFFERENT AT
THE CITY LEVEL.
I'M SURE.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS WITH THAT I'LL
ENTERTAIN A MOTION FOR
ADJOURNMENT MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER BE SIDE BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY I PROPOSE WE ARE
ADJOURNED THE